The Herald PARIS. — Serena Williams said she “feels for” Naomi Osaka and has also experienced “very difficult” press conferences in her career after her rival’s shock withdrawal from the French Open tennis tournament on Monday. Japanese star Osaka pulled out of the tournament after being threatened with disqualification for declining to speak to the media, saying she suffers from “bouts of depression”. Williams, who famously lost to Osaka in the controversial 2018 US Open final, said she sympathises with Osaka. “The only thing I feel is that I feel for Naomi. I feel like I wish I could give her a hug because I know what it’s like,” said the 39-year-old, after her first-round 7-6 (8/6), 6-2 win over Irina-Camelia Begu in the first ever night match at Roland Garros. “We have different personalities, and people are different. Not everyone is the same. I’m thick. Other people are thin. “Everyone is different and everyone handles things differently. You just have to let her handle it the way she wants to . . . “I’ve been where I’ve been very difficult to walk in (to press conferences) in those moments. But, you know, it made me stronger.” Meanwhile, leading figures in tennis and sport have rallied to support Osaka. “I think now the best thing for the tournament, the other players and my well-being is that I withdraw so that everyone can go back to focusing on the tennis going on in Paris,” she wrote. While her original stance had earned little backing from her fellow professionals, most of whom saying that dealing with the media was part of the job, her withdrawal triggered a wave of support from around the sporting world. “So proud of you,” multiple Grand Slam winner Venus Williams posted on Twitter. “Take care of yourself and see you back winning soon!” Billie Jean King echoed comments from fellow women’s tennis trailblazer Martina Navratilova about the importance of mental health. “It’s incredibly brave that Naomi Osaka has revealed her truth about her struggle with depression,” King wrote on social media. “Right now, the important thing is that we give her the space and time she needs. We wish her well.” — AFP.