The Herald Tinashe Nyamushanya Some say, pleasure life begins at college. Others may say life is so super dope at college. In my own estimation my life at college has been an eventful four years of my life was filled with some tears, blood, thrills and spills. And of cause where people meet from all corners of the world plus different cultures there is bound to be the good side and the bad side of campus life, in this article we will check out the campus life in general and then draw a conclusion from the observations I made while at the University of Zimbabwe. From the onset campus life is an amazing experience that a young adult, youths can wish for, various lessons can be leant during your stay and the good and the bad situations that come out during your stay are basically as result of the decisions that you make. From your arrival the atmosphere is always great, meet new faces and people that come from different backgrounds. It important to note that where peers meet there is bound to be what is called peer pressure. If a student is not focused on the goal at hand then the student finds himself or herself lost in a world that some have failed to return from. The reason for all of this is in order to adapt and move along with the trend some of us get carried away thus throwing some of our morals in the bin in the name of impressing your peers but the secret that one forgets is being yourself and focusing on what you came to do will save you from a lot of pain and non matter what the circumstances are you will always have friends that understand you that is only if you don’t pretend. One excellent thing about university life is that you are your own boss from touch down, you’re the one who decides when to eat, what to eat, sleep and the level of determination and effort you’re going to apply behind every project you’re studying. One problem from all of this is that it might take time to adjust to the new surroundings and the rules of the jungle this might be due to the fact that you might be one of us who must first experience disorganized chaos, unwell lifestyle in order to attain a happy and independent norm. Once the independent norm is reached then all will be normal for the student and one gets to enjoy the life of a student while keeping everything in order. Another bad thing about some students is that in the midst of all the chaos, the partying, lectures and the new friend’s one tend to forget the parents at home and doesn’t even call home to check up on them up until the wallet is dry. I also suggest that we should normalize talking to our parents while on compass. From my own view there are no social classes at a university, one thing that you must know is that during your stay at campus is that you’re not everyone’s best friend, you just have to learn to respect other people’s differences and avoid unnecessary attention and confrontation. What you can do instead is to prioritize your obligations and what you want to do, don’t bite more than you can chew and you’ll eventually  make friends that do understand you and have the same goals as you have . Last but not least again the attractiveness of the campus life is dependent on the decisions that you make as an individual you either make bad decision that make your stay as that of staying in a prison or make good decisions that will make you an independent and principled fellow. The truth is that there many distractions that are associated with peers gathering in a certain area minding your own business will save you from a world of disappointment. At the same time this time is when you learn to take risks and experiment with your life but one has to just be careful with type of experiments you do. In conclusion there is no life as that of campus life once there enjoy yourself and create some memories.