The Herald Herald Reporter South African opposition leader and rabid critic of the Second Republic, Mr Julius Malema, has been forced to eat humble pie after admitting he is contemplating taking his Covid-19 vaccination in Zimbabwe as he lavished praise on the country’s inoculation programme which has received worldwide acclaim. The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader this week urged his compatriots to visit Zimbabwe to get vaccinated in what has become the latest endorsement of the way Zimbabwean authorities have managed the Covid-19 pandemic. This came after the World Health Organisation (WHO) said it was impressed by Zimbabwe’s transmission and prevention measures in containing the Covid-19 pandemic, which had resulted in low level of infections and mortality. The World Bank also noted in a report that despite a raft of challenges presented by Covid-19, Zimbabwe was poised to achieve economic growth through adaptations to the pandemic’s disruptions. Mr Malema’s open endorsement of the country’s vaccination programme comes as local healthcare systems are being configured towards regional and continental leadership to match a middle income society. “People are being vaccinated in Zimbabwe. I am also considering going to Zimbabwe to get my vaccination. We are going to die before we are vaccinated,” said Mr Malema. “You were chasing Zimbabweans away and saying they are taking your jobs. It looks like you are going to be chased away when you go to look for a vaccine in Zimbabwe. “Vaccine is available in Zimbabwe. Zimbabweans are being vaccinated, very soon you are going to be illegally crossing into Zimbabwe to go and get a vaccine,” said Mr Malema. “Who would have thought one day South Africans could cross into Zimbabwe to go and seek help. We told you when we were still even in the youth league that one day you will go to this country and ask for help. That is what is happening now,” said Mr Malema. President Mnangagwa deployed his deputy — Vice President Dr Constantino Chiwenga — as Health and Child Care Minister to revitalise the health services.  The President himself noted recently that the quest to revamp the country’s health provision systems and facilities towards regional and continental tourists’ attraction status is gathering pace. Under Vision 2030 and the Healthcare Strategy, Zimbabwe is targeting to improve people’s lives through the provision of quality healthcare. Zimbabwe has performed far better than some First World countries in its response to the Covid-19 pandemic, and apart from WHO and the World Bank, has also won plaudits from the Chinese government for the way it is managing the situation on the ground. The country of late is being inundated by praises leading to people from other countries coming to seek healthcare services as well as requests for assistance. Zimbabwe has been vaccinating its citizenry mainly using the Chinese-made Sinopharm and Sinovac vaccines which were both granted emergency use authorisation by WHO. Citizens will also start getting the Russian made Sputnik V doses after a consignment was delivered to the country this week. Commenting on Mr Malema’s remarks, South African journalist Jurgen Namupira said: “Regardless of magnitude, every good act deserves recognition. “With the virus promising to stay around the block longer, the Zimbabwean Government deserves a cheer.” In what was a surprise to many, one prominent politician from South Africa commended Zimbabwe’s efforts. “While South Africa is moving at a tortoise pace, Mr Julius Malema made a statement during his presser on Thursday June 10, 2021. Malema openly admitted that he was thinking of getting vaccinated in Zimbabwe. He continued to stress that at South Africa’s roll-out pace, the general population would be vaccinated in the grave.” Some Mozambicans are using both the formal and informal entry points to access Nyamapanda Clinic, located less than a kilometre from the Nyamapanda border post. Recently, VP Chiwenga authorised local surgeons to assist separation of conjoined twins from Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon.