The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE international defender, Teenage Hadebe, spurned other more lucrative deals to fulfil his American Dream, after completing his move to Houston Texas. The 25-year-old just become the club’s most expensive signing this season after putting the final touches to his US$1.65m deal. The three-year deal was announced by the club’s new majority owner, Ted Segal, at a press conference. Houston head coach, Tab Ramos, was thrilled by the recruitment of the Zimbabwean defender. “What I can tell you is that Teenage is very excited about coming,’’ he told the Houston Chronicle. “He wanted to choose here, although he had other opportunities that were the same, or better. “And, from speaking with him, he’s a very humble player, who’s willing to come here and work as hard as he can, and we’re excited about that. “He fits very well into our system and our style of play. “He has incredible recovery speed. He’s excellent in the air, he’s naturally left-footed. “He has been competing in a league that is a very athletic league that is very similar to MLS.’’ Hadebe leaves Turkish side, Yeni Malatyaspor, after spending two years with the Super League club. His contract in Turkey was supposed to run until June next year. But, the clubs agreed on the transfer, which will see Hadebe arriving at Dynamo Houston, as their third most expensive player, in history. According to the influential football news outlet, Transfmarkt, Honduras winger Alberth Elis, who was signed for US$2.42m in 2017, hold the Houston transfer record. Former Argentina youth international, Tomas Martinez, is in second place, after his US$1.82m transfer, the same season. Before the move to MLS, Hadebe was valued at €850 000, by Transfmarkt. The American club, however, opted to fork out more, to beat competition. Houston’s new majority shareholder, Segal revealed they faced stiff competition, for the centreback’s signature. That left him, with no choice, but to sign him as a designated player, under the MLS rules. “He was not originally going to be a designated player, but his strong finish to the season (in Turkey) brought other teams into the fold, so we had to pay more,” the club owner explained. The Designated Player Rule, nicknamed the Beckham Rule, allows Major League Soccer franchises to sign up to three players, who would be considered outside their salary cap. They either offer the player higher wages, or by pay a transfer fee, for them. The rule, which was adopted ahead of the 2007 MLS season, enables clubs, to compete for star players, on the international football market. Beckham was the first player signed under this rule, in a five-year contract with the Los Angeles Galaxy, with a guaranteed annual salary of US$6.,million. Hadebe is expected to move to Texas, in July, after sorting out his work visa. He joined Yeni Malatyaspor in July 2019, from South African giants, Kaizer Chiefs. The Warriors defender became a key member of the team, in the last two seasons, and has helped Malatyaspor maintain their Super League status. Hadebe made 53 league appearances, in two years for the club, and has also played a number of domestic Cup games. He also featured in the UEFA Europa League qualifying rounds. In his 60 games, he scored two goals, and provided two assists, despite playing as a central defender. Hadebe is expected to be the first choice partner for Tim Parker, who was rewarded with a contract extension, during his first season in Houston.