The Herald LONDON. — Silverstone will operate at a full capacity for the British Grand Prix in July, meaning more than 140 000 spectators could be in attendance for the Formula One race. The Grand Prix takes place on July 18, a day before coronavirus restrictions are set to be lifted, but a full crowd will be allowed after organisers secured test event status for the weekend’s racing. The move follows large crowds being permitted for the final matches of Euro 2020, Wimbledon and golf’s Open Championship. Capacity at Wembley will be raised to 60 000 for the semi-finals and final of Euro 2020, Wimbledon will start at 50% capacity on June 28 before rising to full 15 000 capacity for the men’s and women’s finals, while 32 000 spectators a day will be permitted at The Open. In 2019 the British GP attracted a race-day attendance of 141 000. “It is fantastic news that Silverstone will be a full capacity event and it will be an incredible weekend with hundreds of thousands of fans being there to see our first ever Sprint event on the Saturday and the main event on Sunday,” Stefano Domenicali, President and CEO of Formula1 said. “I want to express my huge appreciation to the Prime Minister, Boris Johnson, Secretaries of State, Oliver Dowden and Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster Michael Gove and Silverstone’s Managing Director, Stuart Pringle for their tireless work to achieve this great outcome. “All of the drivers and the teams are hugely looking forward to Silverstone and we can’t wait to be there in July.” UK culture secretary Oliver Dowden said: “Through our successful vaccine rollout and ambitious Events Research Programme we are continuing to make progress, and events like this will pave the way for everyone to enjoy live sport and culture together safely once more.”  Silverstone managing director Stuart Pringle said: “This is something we have all been working towards for months and I cannot wait to welcome a full capacity crowd back to Silverstone this July. — Sky Sports.