The Herald Talent Bope-Lifestyle Writer Apart from being a professional teacher and having never practiced it, Monica Mashavave has one other thing most peculiar about her. She is a great and powerful woman thriving in the interior designs and decoration worlds. Probably one of the most coveted and famous interior designers of our time. Mashavave noted that although she has no formal training on decoration, only having acquired a diploma in teaching from Mutare Teachers College and a Bachelor’s degree from Women’s University, she taught herself how to decorate by following other renowned decorators on Youtube and other online platforms. She mastered the technique through decorating kindergartens and other kids events. This is how she gained confidence; she had an exceptional eye which sees opportunities. Mashavave said she started her business with only 20 chairs, but she developed to the extent that she is now hired to decorate for high profile events. Growing from scratch, Mashavave had to buy vases, flowers, wines and water glasses, as well as other decoration items in order to meet her customers’ needs. “I’m a social worker and qualified teacher, but I later discovered that I had another special talent of decorating events such as weddings, birthday parties, and many others,” she said. “I started with only a few chairs, around 20 of them, but now I have grown up in the business that I cannot number the chairs, wines and water glasses and other materials I use. “As the business was doing well, I managed to add more chairs and tables including plates, glasses, forks, and spoons to the hiring package. The secret behind my success is providing good customer service at an affordable price. “This has led me to experience a tremendous growth and register a company under the name Tiny Tots World Wonder Zimbabwe headquartered at Groombridge Shopping Mall. “I used to hire equipment from those who were already established, but as time went by, my business started booming and I later bought my own. You don’t need much, but you develop through the help of others, special mention to Carole Benza.” “I don’t have a fixed price, it depends on the nature of an event and customers’ taste as well. I observed that for one to grow well in business you have to charge reasonable prices. This is my secret, exorbitant prices can lead to the customers ending up shunning your services.” Mashavave is one typical example of a determined women in the world. She has registered a boom in the business considering her age at 38, and her life is a testament of a female figure who refused to succumb to the dehumanizing nature of failure. “At the company, I tried to make it a one-stop shop where all things required by customers are found,” said Mashavave. “I bought two trucks and two commuter omnibuses to ferry my equipment which I bought from proceeds of my work.” Female entrepreneurs, particularly in low-and middle-income countries face many complex challenges in setting up, growing and sustaining their businesses. This has been worsened by the advent of Covid-19. “Interior designing and decorations, like any professionals, face challenges every day,” said Mashavave. “And while some may not appeal to you, others may motivate and excite you. The coming in of the deadly Covid-19 disease had negatively impacted on my career since the World Health Organiation (WHO) guidelines of containing the spread of the disease do not allow gathering. This spelt doom to my business since events and gatherings are my major targets. “Giving attention to your customers, providing them with what they want and making them feel special is a good way of making your business flourish.” Mashavave noted that one should be in a position to go an extra mile to make customers happy so that they can recommend the business to other people. “Many people hire tents for special occasions and as a business person I’m compelled to provide quality service to them to make their day a memorable one,” she said. “Let me highlight that through the business, I was able to sustain myself and my family since I am happily married and blessed with two children. I can now afford to buy my children food, clothes and meet all their needs, this business has really made a significant difference in my life. I am happy that I am in a better position to save money and provide better opportunities for my children in future. “Before Covid-19, business was briskly and flourishing having developed from zero to hero, but this sudden downturn owing to the global pandemic has negatively impacted our business which was poised for tremendous growth.” Asked how she was coping during this upheaval marked by Covid-19, Mashavave said she was experiencing her worst times. She said it was at ground zero as the Government had suspended all gatherings as a stern measure to curb the spread of the pandemic. Mashavave appealed to the Government to come up with a master plan that would not stop gatherings, adding she depended on such occasions.