The Herald Marvellous Savanhu-Youth Interactive Correspondent Teachers need to urgently embrace and implement the three key elements of hybrid modern education which are classroom e-learning, online lessons and computer education so that they remain relevant to local and global challenges facing the education sector like shortage of books and Covid19 lockdowns. This was said by Dzidzo Inhaka E-learning founder and executive director Shepherd Chimururi at a workshop that was hosted by the organisation at Derbyshire Infant school in Harare recently. About 40 school directors, administrators and teachers from Harare, Bulawayo, Domboshava, Mhondoro-Ngezi, Gweru, Mutare and Chitungwiza, attended the workshop. “The gist of the workshop was to help facilitators adopt hybrid education so that they remain relevant in today’s world for the benefit of learners. “ It is unfortunate that our training colleges are lagging behind in terms of equipping teachers with up to date digital lesson delivery skills.” Chimururi further explained, “‘It is not a secret that classroom e-learning is the best mode of motivating learners. Online lessons on the other hand are also the best avenue of engaging learners in Covid19 lockdowns. But for the system to work perfectly both teachers and students must have proficiency in computer education. That has to be the best selling point of our schools.” The workshop covered topics like how to set up modern e-learning classrooms, the benefits of e-learning to students, teachers, school and country, teacher e-learning tool kits, best platforms of delivering online lessons, educational e-games for students, computerised self marking assignments, strategies of engaging students and parents, softwares and programmes for computer education. To help the educators mirror their own class situations, Denzel Dahwa aged seven, a Grade two learner at Southside View Junior and E-learning centre who is an active Tik Tok user demonstrated how to integrate e-learning in science using Science, an educational programme where he build a human skeleton. He also did a science and discovery activity of creating his own secondary colours and artistically painted. In an interview, Huxton Boarding School computer teacher Courage Chikuku, encouraged parents and schools to find best possible ways of implementing online teaching for the benefit of the learners. “All learners are encouraged to buy e-learning gadgets by the school. All learners must possess ICT gadgets. “The schools must insert in classes to be used by teachers and learners. For schools to successfully implement e-learning, online lessons and computer education they must have a functional computer lab, smart television, interactive boards Wi-Fi, projectors, studios, printers, scanners, technology teacher training programs, and relevant editing softwares,” he said. Royal Comfort group of schools Head of ICT Lydia Ururu added that as a facilitator one needs to research a lot in this era. “The facilitator should always be a step ahead of learners. Attending technology self development workshops where we learn new methods of teaching especially the use of software suitable for different age groups make us relevant in today’s classroom,’ she said. Cynthia Sekete, an infant teacher at Lookeron Junior School urged teachers to be technically advanced. “Always pre test your equipment before the lessons. Vary the way you present your content. Avoid being the teacher that is always using You Tube videos. Give learners the reason to look forward to your next lesson. Repetition leads to boredom,’ she said. She added, “From the workshop we got enlightened on how we can use e-games for learners, use age appropriate softwares, activities like e-learning day, and computer competitions. We were not aware of this. If we introduce this we will be known very well.” Schools that were represented at the workshop include Huxton Boarding, Southside View Junior and E-elearning centre, Supreme Kids Junior, Chakohwa Primary, Mutasa Primary, Solid Rock school, Belwood Junior, Royal Comfort Group of Schools, Talent Star Educare Centre, Twinkle Star Junior, Pinnacle Achievement Centre, Lookeron Junior, Santa Heights Junior school, Otifield Junior, Hope Junior, Techno Kids Pre school, Almond Blossom Infant, Blessed Kids Pre school and Westque Academy formerly Pitter Patter Preschool. Dzidzo Inhaka will conduct another workshop under the same theme for the Bulawayo region during the first week of July and for the under privileged rural schools they will partner E-learning and Computer Education Trust (ECET) to roll out the essential programme in an effort to bridge the digital divide.