The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo An old saying goes, home is where love resides, memories are created, friends always belong and laughter never ends. As the world fast becomes a global village and style an in-thing, most families are embracing the need for beauty in their homes and the kitchen is one such place that the sense of beauty and style can be showcased. Because of this new normal, most décor companies are going all out in their quest to become the go-to, new age home design service providers. Home and Garden caught up with one popular kictchen decor and style company — “Kitchen Link” — onwed by Richard Muchaka who shared some of their secret and tips on the trendy kitchen designs to die for. Muchaka reckons the home and in particular the kitchen is the place where memories are made. “Your home is the place you go to after a long day and indeed it is the place where memories are made. “The kitchen in particular is what the music studio is to a musician and we are going the extra mile to bring the beauty into our clients’ homes and ensure that our quality kitchens become the pride of every                         woman. We recently celebrated our 10th anniversary and being a brand built around family ideals, we have over the years become a part of every family’s story through tailor-made and exceptional kitchen designs that are not only affordable but embody quality and durability,” Muchaka said. While most Zimbabweans think professionally done fitted kitchens are rather too dear for their small earnings, Muchaka said their brand is designed for all market segments and has the impetus and pedigree to produce quality products even for the lowest earner and for the smallest of home spaces. “We are the home of expert décor and we are happy to be a part of every family in Zimbabwe through our quality kitchen designs. We have everything for everyone but we never compromise on quality,” he said. On the designs range, Muchaka said they come from the highline type through the open plan with various colours including the espresso and coimbra feel. “We have a whole range of products and these are specifically designed to meet the demands and needs of the clients. Some are high line and some open plans with various colour feels that include the espresso and coimbra.” The soft-spoken businessman said while the all-white kitchen will probably never go out of style, the grey style kitchen is bugging the trend. “Some want the natural elements with some pops of colour as well while others prefer the dark colours. In most cases the grey is topping the list. On the colour front, why not try painting your ceiling a fun colour, like faint blue?” he explained. Here are quick tips to consider when decorating your kitchen: When storage space is scarce, hang wire racks to hold your kitchen goods. They are also a great place to hang dried spices. Store cooking ingredients in matching jars on open shelves for cute décor and easy access. These dark jade tiles contrast beautifully with the copper utensils and white cabinets. When storing supplies on the counters, place them on platters and cake stands to create a contained, cleaner look. Monochrome is in with these striped shades and 50 other ways to use grey throughout your small kitchen. In a small space, less is often more and a few small, simple pieces can be just what your kitchen needed. Add character and make your kitchen feel more like home with a cozy, colourful rug.