The Herald Grace Chingoma-Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE international midfielder, Willard Katsande, says he is ready for his date with destiny. He wants to make history with Kaizer Chiefs who are on the threshold of booking their maiden place in the CAF Champions League final. They host Moroccan giants, Wydad Casablanca, at the FNB Stadium, this afternoon. Chiefs carry a 1-0 advantage, from the first leg, in Morocco. While Khama Billiat will miss the match, due to injury, Katsande can hardly wait for the showdown. “If we win, or draw, we will be in the final and it’s the most important thing, for our career, and the most important thing for our club,’’ he said. “We don’t know when l will hang up the boots but, starting a career at the age of 16, 17 years, and dreaming of playing a Cup final, it’s great to get a chance to play a Champions League final. “It is the biggest Cup final on the continent. “It is something we will look back at and say I really enjoyed my journey, as a professional footballer, and it means a lot for me, to actually play in the final, and leave a good legacy, for the club. “It’s about winning this Cup, for the first time, since the club was formed and, so, everyone wants to be part of that and is hungry for it.” Katsande believes he has done well for the Amakhosi, having featured in 325 games for the club, since his arrival at the Glamour Boys. “I have played 325 games for Kaizer Chiefs, something you can look back and say ‘wow’,’’ he said. “It’s really good to play those kind of games for  a team like Kaizer Chiefs. “It’s not all of us, who will stay at a big team like Kaizer Chiefs for 10 years, and hit up to those figures. “It’s something that requires sacrifice, discipline and dedication. When you play, you need to live your mark. “I might not be a talented player but you will never doubt my commitment, that’s what l always tell people that you know what, ‘I might not be as talented as others but when I play, you will always recognise my commitment. “I think that’s what has kept me in the game for so long. “And, you know for a boy, coming from Mutoko and playing 325 games for Kaizer Chiefs, it is something which is good and I am proud of that, as an individual. “I am proud of my family, proud of where I came from and proud of being a Zimbabwean representing the country at a big institution like Kaizer Chiefs.” Katsande is not new to African football and he hopes the experience will carry them through. “I started playing Champions League when I was still in Zimbabwe, for Gunners (in 2010). “That’s when I was exposed to Champions League football and I tasted how nice it is to play in Africa. “As a player, you need to play in Africa to see the places, and also to gain experience. “I think I gained experience, over the years, playing in Africa, trying and failing. Now, I am on the verge of trying to get into the final. “I think I am going to use all my experience, to rub it onto my teammates, obviously, so that we get a positive result, and get into the final. “But, we don’t need to talk about the final now but the next encounter, which is the Saturday match, whereby we need to give everything, and get a positive result and, the rest will follow, after the 90 minutes on Saturday.” Chiefs surprised themselves with the 1-0 win in the first leg in Casablanca. “The game in Casablanca was a bit tough because we once played them, in the group stages, and they beat us 4-0,’’ he said. “But, experience is the best teacher. We went there with a good plan, rolled up our sleeves, sharpened our swords and said let’s rumble. “We got a good result in the previous game, and it also gives us an upper hand but we also need to be more tactical because it’s a new 90 minutes, and we know they will throw everything to us. “So, it’s about us absorbing the pressure and also we need to dominate the game more, and also to threaten them. “We have been working very hard, in terms of executing the game plan on Saturday (today), and it looks really good for us.’’