The Herald Senior Arts Writer United States-based gospel musician and student pastor Wencilus Makungisa, known in music circles as Mpostori Wency, is making a welcome return from a self-imposed hiatus with a new single which he says is going to blow music lovers away. The single titled “Munamato Wangu” to be released on June 30, features a choir called Peace Gospel Singers. Mpostori Wency said he will be releasing singles every month, with visuals to the productions, on his YouTube account. “I have not been releasing music since I moved to the United States though I have been ministering in churches. Munamato Wangu is, therefore, my first studio recording in two years and I believe it’s a song which will minister and inspire many. “The song will be out on my birthday, June 30, and we are praying for impact and reach. It features Peace Gospel Singers, a highly energetic choir made up of Zimbabweans resident in the United States and we are praying and fasting so that the song speaks to the hearts of many.” Mpostori Wency said he had done his homework and as he churns out the singles every month, he will be investing in good music to get the message home. “Munamato Wangu is a precursor of many singles to come. I will be releasing singles every month complete with the videos on my YouTube account so that the message in every song gets to the listeners and ministers to them. “God has been really good to me and I have had the opportunity to perform at some concerts organised by other African nationalities like Cameroonians and Nigerians, resulting in me getting an award in recognition of my stage work.” Mpostori Wency said “Munamato Wangu” is a prayer for God to intervene in the Zimbabwean situation so that citizens do not lose their morals and humanity in the quest for survival. “What I have witnessed is that there is a general decay in our morals as a people. Yes, we have challenges, but the rate at which people are taking to vices like crime and corruption is alarming. Even the sanctity of life is no longer regarded. “We may have challenges just like many other countries, but the beauty about Zimbabwe has always been its loving, friendly and cultured people. We must retain our envied attributes and continue working hard for national good and it is my wish that God answers this prayer in song.” The musician has been on a steady rise since his days at Zimpraise Choir and he went on to record his first Apostolic Gospel Season 1 DVD live recording at 7 Arts in Avondale in 2016. “Zimpraise was a good launch pad for me. I, however, thank God for the grace to grow and embark on a successful solo career. I have produced hit after hit and my first ever live DVD recording in 2016 at the 7 Arts Theatre in Avondale was sold out. “The majority of my songs struck a chord with listeners and they were crowd favourites at our live shows in Zimbabwe and remain so even here in America. While my sound is mainly apostolic gospel, I will be adapting and fusing it so that it appeals to my audience this side as well. In all this, I will maintain my originality and uniqueness as Mpostori Wency.” Some of Mpostori Wency’s most recognised hits include “Musandikanganwe” in 2013, “Mvura Yakawanda” in 2014 which was a chart topping hit and prayer to God to give the nation rains which would spell good for the country’s agro-based economy. Other songs like “Weminana” and “Rugare Ngaruve Nemi” also became runaway hits that topped charts and made the playlist at many functions.