The Herald LUSAKA. – A recent anti-piracy case in the Seychelles shows African courts are willing to protect the rights of content producers and rights holders. This offers hope for the continent’s creative industries, but the fight against piracy is far from over. The recent finding of the Supreme Court of the Seychelles in the case of MultiChoice Africa Holdings BV and SuperSport International (Pty) Ltd v Intelvision Limited has enormous significance for the protection of intellectual property rights and the fight against content piracy. The curt found that Intelvision was breaking the law when it broadcast matches from the 2019 African Cup of Nations (AFCON) football tournament, for which it did not have broadcast rights. This is the first successful application of the Seychelles’ Copyright Act. This decision sets a strong national and regional precedent in upholding content-sharing agreements to ensure that the rights of content providers are protected at every level of the supply chain. The goal is to ensure that creators are remunerated fairly and the content ecosystem — on which much of modern media is built — remains sustainable. The court ordered that a commissioner be appointed to investigate Intelvision’s accounts to assess the benefit derived by Intelvision from the illegal broadcast of the AFCON tournament. Once the investigation is complete, the Court will determine the amount to be paid by Intelvision to MultiChoice Africa and SuperSport as damages suffered by these parties. Content piracy takes many forms, often simply amounting to intentional content theft. The respondent, Intelvision, was found to be in breach of copyright for its blatant disregard of the rights held by the content producers and rights owners. Africa-wide fight against piracy While the Seychelles ruling is to be applauded, the fight against piracy is global and Africa is meeting the challenge head on. Civil-society organisations and government agencies across the continent are actively working to protect content-creator and owner rights by developing policy, passing laws and enforcing them. There is also a willingness among content stakeholders to assert their own rights, as the MultiChoice and SuperSport victory in the Seychelles demonstrates. Increasingly, Africa is building a united front against piracy and fighting for copyright-protection enforcement. Content piracy involves unauthorised use of content, whether broadcast, shared, streamed or accessed in any way. Illegally streaming content on digital platforms without paying for it or having the rights to do so has exploded globally, and on the African continent, particularly during the pandemic. Other forms of piracy are hardware-related crimes — such as illegal connections and the sale of counterfeit decoders. Protecting creative industries Ultimately, piracy robs content creators, artists and entire creative communities of their royalties. In the creative-entertainment space, this war against piracy is about protecting Africa’s creative industry. Only when artists, screenwriters, directors, actors and sporting codes, to name a few, are assured of being adequately compensated for the work they create, will they dedicate themselves to such careers as a viable livelihood — thereby ensuring a legacy of creativity for future generations Foreign investment This commitment to protecting content rights also has broader relevance for Africa’s national economies. The African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) is a United States preferential-trading arrangement signed into law, requiring — among other things — that African countries defend intellectual property rights, in order to qualify for preferential access to US trade and investment. It is therefore of national and continental economic importance that the fight against piracy be prosecuted with urgent and consistent commitment by all stakeholders, including government agencies and the courts. Fortunately, a united front is developing across the region, with various organisations showing a commitment to fighting piracy, protecting content rights and building a content economy governed by the rule of law, which is safe for investors and beneficial for local economic growth and development. Regional initiatives Partners Against Piracy (PAP) is an awareness initiative launched in Kenya, championed by the  Kenya Copyright Board (KECOBO). It has also been launched in Zambia, where it is driven by the National Arts Council (NAC). PAP is a multi-stakeholder awareness programme to help fight the piracy menace by educating the public on the unintended consequences of piracy and the threat it poses to livelihoods, and society at large. In Africa, piracy remains a significant problem — particularly in the digital-content space, where in some cases even mainstream internet service providers stand accused of enabling piracy.  — Zambian Daily Mail