The Herald Senior Arts Reporter Mbira musician Ronald Nyandoro has released his debut 10-track album titled, “Sabhuku” which has prayers, lamentations and messages of counsel. In the album, Nyandoro does not try too much to sound like legendary music maestro Dr Thomas Mapfumo, but instead he sings in his natural and undiluted voice, bringing home a melody that compares to none. The 46-year-old based in Edmonton, Canada also showcases his great artistry and range throughout the album showing the uniqueness of mbira music where in some songs he slows the tempo before he raises it for those that love to sing along and dance. “I learnt to play mbira by stealing the instrument whenever the elders were away because we were not allowed to touch it. You know that mbira it’s a delicate instrument and if kids get hold of it, it can be bend around and so forth and then lose its tuning. So we had to steal the instrument and try it and when the elders came back, we rushed to put it back where it was.” Nyandoro, who is a self-taught mbira player, said he was not allowed near the instrument, but much to his surprise his parents loved the way he played it and gave him a chance. Sabhuku was produced by Munya Mataure, the late Dr Oliver Mtukudzi’s protégé. Music-wise, the album has something for everyone, if you love the sound of mbira you will enjoy it, and if you enjoy the twing-twang of the guitars you will love it. Most of his subjects relate to everyday life of Zimbabweans. This is because, Nyandoro is not a newcomer on the music, he has been there as part of the group Renaissance, which recorded two albums. “I have been in music since I was a kid but has been just for self-entertainment until I came to Canada where I met Chaka Zinyemba and we decided to come together and just jam mbira music. “We, together with some local musicians formed the band Mbira Renaissance and recorded two CDs – Tisvikewo which has five songs and Famba which has four songs. I left the band in November 2018 to focus on solo recordings that culminated in the album ‘Sabhuku,”’ he explained. He makes a plea in “Pindirai” while on “Mavatora”, Nyandoro says you have taken them away, “God you have taken our loved ones away from us to be with you in heaven. They are your children and we have no power to stop you from taking them but you have left us in unending pain”. The title track, “Sabhuku” is also a plea to elders that people have suffered enough in the hands of imperialists. It is also a call to end sanctions. However, the album is not all about gloom and doom as heard on the song Shinga, which encourages people never to give up. He says keep on pressing and keep moving you will succeed one day. He rounds up the album with “Zvakuwana” where “Nyandoro” forewarns evil doers of trouble ahead. According to Nyandoro, the reception of the music had been wonderful from people of diverse cultural backgrounds. “My music is inspired by my desire for social justice and the preservation of mbira music. “Difference in my sound: my sound is unique because I write my mbira sound from scratch and not as a variation of existing traditions songs. I believe the mbira speaks, hence the name “MbiraSpeaks for my music project/company,” he said. He said “Sabhuku” was due for release in the country but was selayed by the Covid-19 pandemic which restricts on public gathering and live performances. “I would have loved to launch Sabhuku in Zimbabwe but ended up doing it on Facebook,” he said. Nyandoro was born and raised in Mhondoro where there was lot of mbira music in the home both for entertainment and cultural festivals. “This is where the love and appreciation for mbira started. I did well in school and post-secondary I ended up in agriculture where I acquired a Diploma in Agriculture from Chibero College, BSc Hons in Agriculture from University of Zimbabwe and MSc Agricultural in Canada,” he said. His upcoming 10-track album titled Seiko-Why? produced by Munya Vhiya in Edmonton is due for release soon.