The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter FIRST, it was Bill Antonio, and he didn’t disappoint. Then, on Wednesday it was Luke Musikiri, who made a cameo show. And, tomorrow, who knows? It could be the turn of another teenager, Hamilton Gomba, to make his bow, on the grand stage, of the Harare Derby. For the first time, in more than 18 months, Dynamos and CAPS United meet in a competitive match, when they clash in the Chibuku Super Cup, at the National Sports Stadium. Tomorrow’s match is about who should take control their group after DeMbare reclaimed top spot, with seven points, following their 1-0 win over ZPC Kariba. Makepekepe had taken over the lead, overnight, following their 2-1 win over Herentals. And, for Dynamos coach, Tonderai Ndiraya, it’s another chance to give members of his Kidznet II project, an opportunity, to showcase their talents. Sixteen-year-old Musikiri became the second Prince Edward schoolboy, to feature for the Glamour Boys, in this tournament. It is very rare in Zimbabwe, to see coaches trusting a 16-year-old, with Premiership action. Musikiri was given less than five minutes, in the 1-0 win over ZPC Kariba, but his first touch, and incisive pass to Shadreck Nyahwa, was probably a big hint, of things to come. Growing up in Chipinge, the teenager they have already nicknamed Maskiri, never imagined playing for the country’s biggest football club. “This is something I never thought would happen in my life,” he said, in a recent interview. “I started playing football at Checheche Primary School in Chipinge, where I was born and bred. “I was identified by Prince Edward Academy, while playing in a NAPH tournament at Sakubva Stadium, and instantly joined them. “I am happy with the way things have been turning, as far as my football career, is concerned. ‘‘I am focused on going beyond Dynamos as I look forward to play overseas.” He is an A’ Level student at Prince Edward, along with Antonio (18), who seems to have cemented his place, in the team. “I think we made our intentions very clear, when we signed these boys, it’s not just Bill. Luke Musikiri, a 16-year-old from Prince Edward as well, who comes from Chipinge, played a few minutes,’’ said Ndiraya, on Thursday. “We saw the potential in Bill, at training, and that really pushed us to play him ahead of some of the experienced players. ‘‘We also have Hamilton Gomba, perhaps the fastest of the three, so, brace yourselves for more youngsters, in the coming weeks. “Of course, we are happy that we have a good blend of experienced players, and youth, and that will make our team very strong. ‘‘We have a new team, which we need to give time but we also understand that time is not really there for us, at this big institution.’’ He said it was not healthy, for the Premiership teams, to keep recycling players. “It is really a risk from our end, to trust an 18-year old to start, in a big institution like Dynamos,’’ he said. ‘‘But, look, it is paying dividends and I think it’s really going to inspire all the other coaches to play these youngsters. “We want these boys to play, we have seen these boys to play, we have seen players being recycled in a long time. ‘‘I think the onus is on us the coaches to play these boys so that we develop our football going forward.” Dynamos, however, were lethargic in their last match against ZPC Kariba. ‘‘Our performance on Sunday is really going to be based on how quickly our boys are going to recover, and we are going to make sure that we carry out that process, in a good manner,’’ said Ndiraya. “The win gave us confidence, as a team, but Sunday’s game is a different game altogether. ‘‘It’s that consistency that we are now demanding from the players and the CAPS United game is no different and we hope that we can get a result.” The Green Machine also have some exciting players like ex-Bulawayo Chiefs leftback, Brendon Mpofu, who was the man-of-the-match, in their win over Herentals. Blessing Sarupinda, Ishmael Wadi and Tinashe Balakasi have all had the CAPS fans, dreaming big. Should they get Ian Nyoni, Phineas Bhamusi and Leeroy Mavhunga from injury then CAPS Unite will be a match for Dynamos. “I am glad the boys are showing a lot of character because if you look at, when we conceded (in the game against Herentals), it was probably the seventh or eighth minute,’’ said coach Darlington Dodo. “But, we did not put our heads down, we took the ball from the nets and reorganised. ‘‘That is the desire that I always expect from these boys. I am demanding that from them and they are doing the right things, which is good for the team.’’ Fixtures Saturday Harare City vs Herentals (Grp 1, NSS at 11 am) Manica Diamonds vs Black Rhinos (Grp 3, Sakubva at 1 pm) Bulawayo Chiefs vs Chicken Inn (Grp 2, Barbourfields at 3 pm) Sunday Yadah vs ZPC Kariba (Grp 1, NSS at 11 pm) Cranborne Bullets vs Tenax (Grp 3, Sakubva at 1 pm) Highlanders vs Bulawayo City (Grp 2, Barbourfields at 1 pm) CAPS United vs Dynamos (Grp 1, NSS at 3 pm)