The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE international goalkeeper, Washington Arubi, says he is keeping his fingers crossed, as he eyes to bring down the curtain, on the 2021 season with a bang. The 35-year-old goalkeeper was nominated for the Nedbank Cup Player of the Tournament, following some breath-taking performances, which helped Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila win their first silverware. He is the only Zimbabwean player, who will feature in this year’s South Africa’s Premiership end-of-season awards, tomorrow evening. Arubi will battle it out against TTM teammate, Ndabayithethwa Ndlondlo, and Namibia’s Peter Shalulile, of Mamelodi Sundowns. “I am looking forward to the awards at the same time relaxed. It’s an honour to be nominated,’’ he said. ‘‘I wish everyone who’s nominated all the best because they all deserve to be nominated and they worked hard. “As I said, everyone who’s nominated deserves to be there, at the end of the day, there’s always a winner. ‘‘I think everyone on that award shortlist is a winner.” Arubi produced four clean sheets from five games. He started off his brilliant run when TTM beat his former paymasters, SuperSport United, 1-0, in the Round of 32. His goal was only breached when TTM drew 2-2 with Swallows, in the last 16, of the tourney. However, he went on to play a starring role, stopping two spot kicks in the shootout lottery, to set up a 4-3 victory. Arubi kept another clean sheet, in the 2-0 win over Black Leopards, in the quarter-finals. He then frustrated holders, and pre-tournament favourites, Sundowns, in the semi-finals, with a string of top drawer saves. Arubi added another clean sheet. He has been the best Zimbabwean performer in South Africa, of late. “I am happy that we managed to achieve what we really wanted, which is to keep the PSL status for the team. ‘‘We went through a difficult path but we managed to overcome all the obstacles that we faced. “Credit to the whole team because we kept working hard, believing in ourselves, and being positive. ‘‘Everything that we came across made us stronger, as a team, that’s why we managed to survived the chop. “For now we just want to finish the season on a high note, already we focused on the last game against Orlando Pirates (this afternoon). ‘‘As for the Confed Cup will see how far we are going to progress when we reach that bridge,” said Arubi. The Categories PSL Footballer of the Season: Thabiso Kutumela (Maritzburg United) Peter Shalulile (Mamelodi Sundowns) Themba Zwane (Mamelodi Sundowns) DStv Premiership Player’s Player of the Season: Thabiso Kutumela (Maritzburg Utd) Themba Zwane (Mamelodi Sundowns) Peter Shalulile (Mamelodi Sundowns) DStv Premiership Coach of the Season: Benni McCarthy (AmaZulu) Manqoba Mngqithi & Rulani Mokwena (Sundowns) Mandla Ncikazi (Golden Arrows) DStv Premiership Goalkeeper of the Season: Sifiso Mlungwana (Golden Arrows) Veli Mothwa (AmaZulu)Denis Onyango (Mamelodi Sundowns) DStv Premiership Defender of the Season: Mosa Lebusa (Mamelodi Sundowns) Njabulo Ngcobo (Swallows FC)Tapelo Xoki (AmaZulu) DStv Premiership Midfielder of the Season: Rivaldo Coetzee (Mamelodi Sundowns) Makhehlene Makhaula (AmaZulu) Themba Zwane (Mamelodi Sundowns) DStv Premiership Young Player of the Season: Bongokuhle Hlongwane (Maritzburg United) Kamogelo Mahlangu (TS Galaxy) Evidence Makgopa (Baroka FC) MTN8 Last Man standing: Deon Hotto (Orlando Pirates) Victor Letsoalo (Bloemfontein Celtic) Ben Motshwari (Orlando Pirates) Nedbank Cup Player of the Tournament: Washington Arubi (Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila) Ndabayithethwa Ndlondlo (Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandile) Peter Shalulile (Mamelodi Sundowns) Nedbank Cup Most Promising Player of the Season: Njabulo Blom (Kaizer Chiefs) Khanyisa Mayo (Richards Bay) Moloisane Mokhele (Chippa United)