The Herald Lovemore Chikova Assistant Editor Before January this year, very few would turn their heads at the mentioning of the name DT Bio Mudimba, and even when the name was mentioned, some were bound to dismiss it because of its configuration. DT Bio what? They were likely to respond. But now, DT Bio Mudimba is a household name, thanks to his hit sungura single “Kujata jata”, which has taken the airwaves and homes by storm. Everywhere you go, especially in high density suburbs and the rural areas, you are likely to hear “Kujata jata” beaming from houses or motor vehicles. “Kujata jata” is one song you are most likely to ask: who is that singer upon hearing it for the first time. Yet it did not start like this. Perhaps explaining the name DT Bio Mudimba suffice at this moment. D stands for Day, T for Tawanda, Bio needs more elaboration which will be done in the next paragraph, while Mudimba is his surname. Well, the name Bio is actually a nickname. After fans were impressed by his sounds, they concluded the music was like a bayonet piercing their ears because it was sharp and to the point, and they started shortening Bayonet to simply Bio. That is how the middle name Bio stuck to complete the name DT Bio Mudimba. It would not be far off the mark, although too early, to conclude that the Song of Year 2021 has already been found. For how do you explain a song that entered the music charts in January and has been voted number one by listeners of different radio stations since then. This alone could be the staff that uplifts a song to the best of all, come the end of the year, as radio listeners are likely to remember only those songs that held fort for such long periods. What makes DT Bio Mudimba’s work on “Kujata jata” exceptional is that the single is his first recorded song. It is rear for sungura musicians to hit the right point at the first attempt, many will testify that they started enjoying some attention after several albums. The recognition becomes even more difficult, especially if you come from far-flung areas like Binga, where DT Bio Mudimba hails from. “Kujata jata” was sang in both Shona and DT Bio Mudimba’s mother language — Tonga, and translates to “Kubata bata” in Shona. DT Bio Mudimba was the producer of the song that was recorded at Afro Recordz Studios in Bulawayo. DT Bio Mudimba likes to call “Kujata jata” a “Tonga sungura inspired by old school sungura music, hence fused by our Zambezi Valley rhythms and vocals style”. “The song “Kujata jata” is about the use of African juju,” said DT Bio Mudimba in an interview. “This song was inspired by true situations that I have witnessed in our family and also other families in the society who have children suffering misfortunes as a result of a relative who used juju to prosper in life. “On the song, I am trying to discourage the society from using juju for whatever reasons since it will bear long term social problems for families.” Those who have listened to the song should have heard the name Skimbo being mentioned several times. Well, DT Bio Mudimba says they grew up referring to youths who loved money and fancy materials of life that come through unscrupulous deals as Skimbo. In the song, Skimbo ends up losing everything because of the love of money when he consults bogus traditional spiritualists and obtains goblins. “I feel very happy and also humbled by the support that I got from the supporters that has driven the song to be played on various platforms and across the country and beyond our borders,” said DT Bio Mudimba. “In future, we promise to release an album if funds permit, but if we fail to raise the needed funds for the project, we may at least give our fans another single.” DT Bio Mudimba said like any other musician, Covid-19 has affected his band since its source of income is through activities such as live shows, which have been banned. DT Bio Mudimba was born in 1984 at Kalungwizi Village under Chief Siabuwa in Binga. He credits Dr Paradzai Tagwireyi who taught him music at Manyoni High School as early as 2003 when he played in the school band. “I then formed my band, Kaani Stars in 2009,” said DT Bio Mudimba. “The name Kaani is the old name for Binga district, hence on my music it was inspired by the place I come from. “Kaani Stars band is an eight member-ensemble, but as of now we are not yet at liberty to name the members since some of them play for other bands besides ours.” DT Bio Mudimba said “Kujata jata” will be part of his coming album titled “Baama ataata” (mum and dad). After the success being realised by “Kujata jata”, his fans cannot obviously wait.