The Herald Children are among the most vulnerable members of society and they need special protection. This week we asked as children and youths do we know or understand our rights? For example, can you name one or two rights you think are being violated daily without knowing. Below are the excerpts from different students:  Tamika Rogers 21 University of Zimbabwe, Public Administration As much as most youths do understand their rights, they face particular barriers in accessing and enjoying their rights. There are also the ones that lack knowledge about their rights whatsoever. It is quite unfortunate that the youth do not have a “voice”, yet they are the country’s future. Although they are well informed of their rights, it is the fear of the unknown that pins them down. The youth are infringed of their right to hold opinion and receive information and ideas without interference because of lack of opportunities, discrimination and most importantly the fear of the unknown. The youth are being violated of their right to social services, they have the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being for themselves. The right to social services caters for the vulnerable groups like the unemployed but then not much is being done to curb this. The number of unemployed youth seems to be escalating and instead of them having social inclusion and cohesion, the poverty level is rising.  Chengetai Mandoza, 20 University of Zimbabwe Biochemistry A youth is any person between the age of 15 and 35 as defined by the Constitution of Zimbabwe Amendment (No.20) Act2013 Section 20. I believe as youths we do not understand the importance and the ability to exercise our rights. We have plenty of rights that are violated without us knowing. The right to privacy as youths and the right to have access to contraceptives below the age of 16. I strongly believe these rights are violated on a single basis. Our parents, relatives and peers cannot have access to our mobile phones, gadgets and even barging into our bedrooms without knocking. This is a right to privacy that is being violated and we are forced to believe that they can do what they want since we live under their roof. I understand it is against cultural norms for both genders to indulge in sexual activities before marriage, but in the case that it happens, adolescents below the age of 16 cannot have access to contraceptives. This is a human right violation because it leads to unwanted pregnancy, child marriages and illegal abortions. Hence, it is our duty as youths to stand up for our rights. No violation of youth rights!  Faith L Mayavo, (22) Midlands State University Firstly, what is it that we call “human rights”? Well, human rights are the basic rights and freedom that belong to every individual in the world and are inherent to us all, regardless of nationality, sex, ethnic origin, colour,religion, language, or any other status. Yes, as youths we know and understand our rights. The right to free and affordable education. The cost of education nowadays is now expensive. If we look at the registration money needed for one to write ordinary level examinations, we would find out that the amount required is above the poverty datum line, this being a set back for many youths. As youths we need more protection against social media. Youths are being abused. For instance, girls are being advocated for nudity in the form of being models. Memes are now made out of someone’s poverty and setbacks instead of helping them.  Christine M Mwaluza, 20 years Bindura University of Science Education-Economics One of our most basic rights is the right to equitable and affordable education, this right is being overlooked inorder to accommodate the economy that we are living in. As much as E-learning has enabled us to continue learning from the safety of our homes during the pandemic, just like a two-edged sword it has also on the other hand hindered others from learning as they cannot afford data bundles which are quite expensive. It is as though education is now a niche of some sort as it is only targeted at those who can afford to go online, that is if they even have the proper gadgets to do so. The average employee is getting paid an average of around 20000 RTGs yet one would find that tertiary education fees are ranging up higher. Furthermore, aside from fees hikes, the prices of commodities that are needed for school like uniforms and laptops are generally high which also hinders some students from getting the proper equipment for school. Nigel Mhako, 23 Africa University Bachelors of Science Honours in International Relations In Zimbabwe the issue of human rights has always been a topic of concern attracting a lot of national and international interest. The topic of human rights is not well educated from a tender to the extent that youths of today have become ignorant towards this topic. Young ladies and gentlemen are being violated each and everyday in more ways than one due to lack of knowledge and no action is being done. For Instance; a young person cannot express themselves in any way that is not favourable to a certain authority or they will suffer persecution and unfair treatment because of what is instilled in your heart. Well, for some who know the law and their rights they also fail to produce the level knowledge to make it applicable and not come back to haunt them. Either way there’s a need for effective instilling of knowledge and wisdom on topics of human rights and also law. This calls for a lot of things to be reformed, mostly our education structure, our education system needs to be restructured to fit in issues which matter most to people like the topic of human rights. 