The Herald Talent Bope
Arts Reporter
Upcoming gospel and choral group, Zvido Zvevatendi, has released an album called “Tumirai Ngirozi” which underscores the need for people to live in harmony. Having encountered hurdles getting producers to work on the album during the trying  time of Covid-19 restrictions, Zvido Zvevatendi never gave up on recording their album with Dynasty Records studio in Mbare last month. In an interview, the group’s spokesperson, Munashe Chimombe, said the songs focus more on leaving in harmony praying to God for his wisdom to help people from indulging in rituals. “This is our second album since we got into the industry. Had it not been the global pandemic, we would have done more albums as we are very determined,” said Chimombe. The six-track album was released at a time when various mysterious events were happening in the country, chief among them ritual murders, so it was it was a call for God to intervene by sending the angels. “Things were working against us because we were ready to record the album, but because of Covid-19, all studios were closed owing to this global pandemic. “This new album is prophetic in itself because we rehearsed the songs before Covid-19 hit the whole world so it was an invitation of God to send angels and heal the world.” Chimombe bemoaned lake of funding as a major setback that had barred them to record renowned studios adding they needed sponsors to survive in the industry. “We are still in our infancy as we  need of sponsors to record our songs with big studios like Makumbe and Metro studios so that we quickly gain mileage, the arts industry is not performing well, so we don’t have any source of income,” said Chimombe. The album, “Tumirai Ngirozi” is fast becoming an anthem around the high density suburbs in Harare mostly Budiriro and Glen View where the group members reside. Some of the songs on the album include “Dzimba Dzendarama”, “Tumirai Ngirozi” the title track, “Matiiko Baba?”, “Mutsvene”, “Hossana” and a bonus track “Jerusarema Idzva Revival.” Chimombe said they were expecting to collaborate with other artistes. Their first album’ “Ndiitei Mutsvene”’ was recorded at Metro Studios. Plans were afoot to release videos of some of the songs. Chimombe said they would like to record videos for “Dzimba Dzendarama”, and the title track “Tumirai Ngirozi.” The group consists of four members – Munashe and Anesu Chimombe, Nicholas Mambari and Talent Mutorindo . “We have been struggling to pool funds to record an album in several studios since 2015 and through the hand of God who opened avenues to get the funding, we managed to record a six-track album early this month,” he said. Zvido Zvevatendi is an acapella choral group which has added some drums and shakers to spice up the beats. Chimombe said their music seeks to transform society through abandoning age-old traditions that have cost many people their destinies through indulging in ungodly things.