The Herald Sports Reporter
THE Zimbabwe team to compete in the Billie Jean King Cup Europe/Africa Group III, which gets underway today in Vilnius, Lithuania, will be out to leave a mark at the competition. The event, formerly known as the Fed Cup, is the largest annual international team competition, in women’s tennis. The Zimbabweans are returning to the event after a 12-year absence. The team is made up of Valeria Bhunu, Tadiwanashe Mauchi, Tanyaradzwa Midzi and captain Fadzai Mawisire. Mauchi, Midzi and Mawisire are already in Lithuania. They left the country on Saturday while South Africa-based Valeria Bhunu is expected to join her teammates today. Twenty-one nations, grouped into six pools of three and four, will be competing at the SEB Arena in Vilnius, in a round-robin format. The group winners will contest a play-offs draw to determine the two teams that will be promoted to Group II. Zimbabwe were placed in Pool E together with Malta, Algeria and Kenya. Tennis Zimbabwe manager, Cliff Nhokwara, said returning to the competition gives upcoming players something to look forward to. “It shows, to all the girls playing tennis in the country, there is something to look forward to, representing the nation at that level. “Obviously, when you participate at that level you can decide how your tennis will be, whether it’s for college purposes or turning professional. “This is a platform to assist in making those decisions,” said Nhokwara. Zimbabwe will first take on Malta, then Algeria and Kenya in their last Pool E match. Nhokwara said while it is a fair draw, it’s going to be tough considering they are fielding a young team. “I am not sure about Malta and Algeria, the strength of their players but Kenya does have some good players, it’s going to be tough for our inexperienced young players. “Unfortunately, Valeria had some medical issues and will only arrive tomorrow (today). “We just hope Valeria will be fit and will be able to join the rest of the team. “Rufaro Magarira could not make it because of visa, passport issues,” said Nhokwara. Pool A is made up of Norway, North Macedonia and Albania while Cyprus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Rwanda make up Pool B. Pool C consists of the hosts Lithuania, Kosovo and Nigeria. Ireland, Armenia, Ghana and Iceland will face each other in Pool D. South Africa, Montenegro, Namibia and Azerbaijan are in Pool F. Meanwhile, TZ have lodged an appeal to the authorities for a special waiver to allow their players preparing for international events to practice. “We have Davis Cup in September, the Under-18s tournaments in July and August, the Africa Junior Championships in July, we need players to prepare for the AJC that is 14 and 18-year-olds. “We have players going to Nigeria and Kenya for the Under-18s. Now all those have been put on hold. “We have, however, put an appeal to SRC for players to practice,” said Nhokwara.