The Herald Crime Reporter Three suspects have been arrested in Mutare and police recovered 10 bales of second-hand clothes that were stashed in a Honda Fit. Investigations revealed that the trio had smuggled the bales from Mozambique through illegal entry points. The trio were arrested following a tip off and police managed to intercept them in the city. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi confirmed the arrests and said investigations were still in progress. “On June 19, 2021, police in Mutare intercepted and arrested three suspects for possession of goods suspected to have been smuggled into the country. “The suspects were using a Honda Fit vehicle and 10 bales of second hand clothes valued at $20 000 were recovered,” he said. Asst Comm Nyathi reiterated that, members of the public must follow all immigration procedures. He warned smugglers that security agents were on high alert to thwart such activities countrywide. The latest incident comes after more than 19 636 people have so far been arrested for smuggling and other cross border-related crimes as police continue to express concern over such activities countrywide. The arrests come after police recently launched an operation code-named ‘No to Cross Border Crimes/ Fhasi Ngamilandu Yamukanoni Yamashango/ Mhosva Pamiganhu Ngadzipere/ Amacala Kawaphele Emingceleni Yelizwe’. Government deployed the national security task force to Beitbridge in January to boost its capacity to deal with cross-border related crimes. Prior to the latest move, Government was losing revenue in import/export duties. The taskforce, among other things, is making use of drones, helicopters, and motorised patrols along the Limpopo River. Recently, police in Madlambuzi intercepted a grey Toyota D4D twin cab towing a trailer that was loaded with smuggled goods at Madlambuzi Business Centre and arrested Mqondisi Dube (26), Reason Ncube (32) and Butholezwe Mkwananzi (41) for smuggling. Police also arrested Arnold Zhiradzago (28), in Beitbridge for smuggling after he was intercepted while driving a Toyota Dyna truck loaded with 158 of 2kg MAQ washing powder worth approximately R52 640. A 25-year-old woman was also arrested in Beitbridge after she was found in possession of 99X100ML of Broncleer cough syrup packed in a monarch bag and 0,012kgs of Methamphetamine at Malindi Transit Shed. Investigations established that the suspect smuggled the contraband from South Africa with intention to resale in the country.