The Herald LONDON. — Liverpool have reportedly completed the signing of Ghanian wonderkid Abdul Fatawu Issahaku, according to his current club’s chairman. Issahaku has become a rising star for Steadfast FC in the second tier of Ghanian football and for his national team’s youth sides over recent seasons. In fact, he has impressed so much that a number of clubs were believed to be sizing up moves for the young attacking midfielder. Bundesliga side Bayer Leverkusen were the side thought to be closest to completing a deal for the teenager, but it now appears that Jurgen Klopp ’s Reds have won the race to sign him. The 17-year-old has scored eight goals in 13 games for Steadfast, helping them to finish fourth in Zone One of the Division One League. His performances earned him a call-up to the Ghana Under-17s team, before getting promoted to the Under-20s for the Under-20 Africa Cup of Nations, held earlier this year. Issahaku starred at the tournament, scoring two goals and notching one assists in six games as the Black Stars won their first AFCON title for 11 years. He started every match on Ghana’s road to the trophy, with his performances seeing him named the tournament’s best player. His displays appear to have attracted the eye of Liverpool, with Steadfast president and owner Haruna Iddrisu claiming a deal has been completed. “When I started negotiation for Abdul Issahaku Fatawu’s move to abroad, it started from more than 1 million euros and this means if we get corporate sponsorships, we can do better,” he told Football Ghana. “We need to do more to make our football attractive and by doing that we get more hands-on board to sponsor our football because on weekends. “Football is the business everywhere so I am pleading to the corporate world. I am doing Steadfast for the love of football and for the people of my home town.” Football Ghana also report that Leverkusen had agreed a deal, but Liverpool moved in when it fell through at the final stage. They state that the Reds have paid a fee in the region of £1.5million for the 17-year-old, who is said to have signed a five-year deal at Anfield. But despite apparently signing the highly-rated star, Reds fans will not get an immediate glimpse of their side’s new signing. That is because Klopp’s men have reportedly sent him straight out on loan to Portuguese top-flight side Sporting Lisbon. — The Mirror.