The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ORGANISERS of the COSAFA Cup have confirmed that the 2021 edition will go ahead as scheduled despite the new Covid-19 lockdown measures that have been enacted in the host country, South Africa. The regional football extravaganza is expected to be staged in Nelson Mandela Bay from July 6-18. The tournament, which failed to kickoff last year following the surge in coronavirus cases, had come under the spotlight again as the country is experiencing a deadly third wave. South African President Cyril Ramaphosa announced on Sunday that the country would move to adjusted Level 4 restrictions to combat a rise in Covid-19 infections that are largely contained in the Gauteng province.
But the updated Government Gazette clearly states that professional sports events around the country may continue, as long as the appropriate precautions are put in place. COSAFA General Secretary Sue Destombes said COSAFA, along with the South African Football Association, have created a bio-secure environment for the teams, officials and organisers of the tournament in Nelson Mandela Bay. They are building on the successful ‘bubble’ for the four tournaments staged in the Eastern Cape at the end of 2020. “Whilst there is a need to implement stricter measures to deal with the current statistics, the President of South Africa in his address to the Nation on 27 June 2021 was clear in that daily life and business, in particular, should continue”, said Destombes. “The restrictions on inter-provincial travel does not apply to transit through OR Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg, and travel for the purposes of business is permitted. “COSAFA has already put in place strict Covid-19 protocols to ensure the safety of all role players, including operating within a bio-bubble and playing matches behind closed doors.” “COSAFA, hosts Nelson Mandela Bay Metro and agencies of the South African Government have extensive experience in staging events in the midst of the lockdown, having hosted four competitions in Nelson Mandela Bay in 2020, and with professional domestic football and international matches continuing,” she said.