The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Zimbabwean midfielder, Willard Katsande, believes they “remain a big team” despite monumental challenges they have faced this season. With two games to play before the South African Premier Soccer League ends, the Amakhosi are five points above the relegation zone, after failing to win, in their last five league matches. Chiefs appointed former Bafana Bafana gaffer, Molefi Ntseki, as head of their technical department, this week. They host third-placed Golden Arrows today and Katsande believes they have a lot to play for, considering they are also in the CAF Champions League semi-finals. “Obviously, we are going to play an important match against Arrows and we are coming back from a defeat (against basement side Black Leopards) of which we wanted a positive result out of that game,” Katsande told Chiefs’ media. “We just want to go and apply as well as redeem ourselves because there is still a lot to play for. “We just need to do well and keep up the momentum going into the Champions League. “All we want to do is to take one game at a time and try to be more positive plus to grind a result. “We will also try to enjoy our game as you know the Glamour Boys are about enjoying. The more we enjoy, the more we will get a result. “So, it is a matter of just applying ourselves and getting the maximum points. We know that Arrows have been having a good season. “But, we are playing at home and when we play at home against Arrows we always get positive results and it is going to work in our favour come Wednesday.” The hosting of Arrows marks the beginning of the post-Gavin Hunt era. Katsande admits they “were not pulling in the same direction” which led to their struggles at home. “The positives for this season is that we are in the Champions League semi-final, the big league in Africa,” said Katsande. “We need to go there and leave everything on the field in our so-called bad season in good style which is trying to get to the final and try to win it for our fans, for our chairman and for ourselves. “We need to redeem ourselves, to bring our dignity back moving the next season. “Myself, as Willard, I should have done better but at the same time we need a team to pull in the same direction of which we didn’t pull in the same direction because of some hiccups here and there. “But, we are professionals and we face some setbacks.” Amakhosi face an Arrows side that is battling against Orlando Pirates and Swallows FC to secure third spot on the PSL table. — Goal.com