The Herald Shaka Zulu is getting a modern adaptation with new short animated film Shaka iNkosi yaMakhosi. The film is set to premiere on July 23 at the Durban International Film Festival (DIFF) and Terry Pheto is one of the producers. Manzini Zungu, hailing from rural KwaZulu-Natal, is the executive producer and co-director of the film. The coming-of-age film is told through the character of Young Manzini and his grandma narrating the story of the great Zulu king and his empire. “Inspired by Shaka, the protagonist Young Manzini found the strength to confront his bullies by seeking ‘the Shaka within.’ ‘‘We wanted to create a body of work that provokes audiences to also find their inner Shaka to help them overcome their challenges,” Zungu told Sowetan on Thursday last week. “The story of Shaka is one that resonates with me personally as it’s one of the stories told to me by my grandmother as a young boy which has reminded me to always draw strength in my adversities. “The story aims to ignite the human spirit to rise above itself. It also aims to inspire audiences to dig for the hero that lives within and bring it to the fore. The animated adaptation is unlike any others, as some of these events have not been documented nor told in this manner, in any history books.” Themba Ntuli will portray Young Manzini. Uzalo actor Mondli Makhoba will voice Shaka, while Isibaya star Ayanda Borotho will slip into character as Queen Nandi and DiepCity leading lady Dawn Thandeka King as Mkabayi. Veteran entertainer Lillian Dube takes on the role of Gogo MaLamula Zulu. “The choice of character voices was based on the type of emotions we wanted to evoke in our audiences. ‘‘The characters needed to be brought to life authentically without them sounding contrite,” said Zungu. “When we set out to cast the characters, we looked at individuals who not only exuded the confidence to take up their respective roles but also shared the same passion for the actual story. “They needed to not only act/voice artist the work but they needed to believe and embody their characters effortlessly.” Zungu, 48, is the founding CEO of Pacinamix. — sowetan