The Herald Victor Maphosa
Arts Reporter
Bindura based Church of Christ pastor Misheck Svodziwa has released a 12-track gospel album called “Barrier Breaker” meant to motivate the nation as it goes through the Covid-19 pandemic era. Pastor Svodziwa, said many people had been affected by pandemic, but should not despair, instead, keep their faith and remain hopeful. The album was recorded at IMMD Studios in Bindura and produced by Wisdom Chidenyu. In an interview recently, Pastor Svodziwa who is backed Yahweh24/7 said he is from a Christian background and started singing from as young as 6 years. “There are a couple of reasons which made me to release this album. Firstly, I once fell sick to the extent that I thought my life was over, but God healed me. Secondly some people have lost hope due to this pandemic. Yes these are challenging times, some have lost hope, others have stopped believing in themselves but I want them to know that even in this Covid-19 era, great things can happen. “Also through my music, I am encouraging people to remain hopeful and put their trust in God, at all times.” Pastor Svodziwa said before he ventured into gospel music, he was a member of the Octopus Band where he was exposed to the music industry. “I had a stint with Octopus Band and we used to perform in various places including beerhalls. The group groomed me and I was exposed to music industry. I learnt a lot from the band.” However, he said because he had a calling, he did not stay much with the band as he had to revert to gospel, which eventually lead him to record his first album in 2013 titled “Jesu Moto”. “It did not do well on the market but to me, it was a success because those who listened to it benefited a lot. This year, I decided to record and release another album titled ‘Barrier Breaker’ with rich tracks which include ‘Varipi’, ‘Hymn 77’, ‘Chitima Chedenga’, ‘Barrier Breaker’ and ‘Ndinewe’. “The album featured singers Mazvita Makota on six songs and Ropafadzo Matemera on one song.” Pastor Svodziwa urged other artistes to always sing to educate people. “These days some artistes are not singing biblically sound messages in terms of scriptural doctrine. I advise musicians to do thorough research on the message they want to communicate through their songs before they become false teachers through music since our audience learns from the songs we sing. “Consult the Bible, consult your pastor, fellow musician or someone spiritually mature before you preach a heretic message through music. For example, “back to sender” message is popular amongst musicians though its an anti-Christ doctrine since it contradicts what Jesus taught us in the new testament. Jesus said forgive those who trespass against you, bless those who persecute you, love your enemies, vengeance is mine and not yours (Matthew 5:38;43 Romans 12:14-21). “Therefore the disciple can not choose to ignore the master’s will and teaching in favour of our own wishes and desires and vengeance because of the pains that we are caused by people. Indeed in the old testament vengeance was permissible but then Christ abolished it when he said there is no longer an eye for eye or tooth for tooth.”