The Herald Senior Reporter Fast foods outlet, Eat n’ Lick, has opened a third branch in Mutare’s Central Business District, bringing the outlets to 16 as the firm moves to expand its footprint countrywide. The firm whose first branch was in Chinhoyi, followed by Karoi, Rusape and Mutare, has since spread its wings in some towns and cities in Zimbabwe. The firm has been a major promoter of small businesses in areas it operates as most of the raw materials such as potatoes, vegetables, flour and chickens are sourced in the vicinity.  Speaking at the official opening of the Mutare branch recently, Eat n’ Lick managing director, Mrs Tsitsi Musabayana, said the firm was excited to contribute to the growth of the economy through its services as well as offering employment to the people in the city. Mrs Musabayana said their business project valued the empowerment of locals wherever they operated. “We buy products such as chicken, flour and potatoes in Manicaland. 100 percent of our staff at all our outlets are from Manicaland, so this is a great development for us as well as people of this province,” she said. Mutare now has three branches, Harare five, Chinhoyi two, while other branches are in Karoi, Chegutu, Kwekwe and Kadoma. Mrs Musabayana said the aim of their company is to open at least one branch in every town. “We are geared to expand our investment in the fast foods industry in this country. In fact, our aim is to have at least one branch in every town in this country. This is a vision we are well on course to achieving,” she said. While launching the Chegutu branch last year, the company said it was targeting to set up bases in countries such as South Africa, Kenya, Botswana and Zambia as part of foreign currency generation strategy. The firm said it was paying college fees for some underprivileged university students.  “We assist orphanages, old people’s homes and many disadvantaged communities. We are our brothers’ keepers. When you buy from any of our branches, you are contributing in the upkeep of orphans, the elderly and disadvantaged members of our communities,” said company chairman Mr Isiah Musabayana. Eat n’ Lick recently rebranded and upgraded by introducing state-of-the-art equipment, SBD self-service tapping machines to promote social distancing in line with Covid-19 guidelines and promote self-service.