The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo-Senior Arts Reporter Self-taught animator Tafadzwa Tarumbwa, who is in the process of reviving the use of folktales to develop good morals, has called for locals to take part in the initiative. Tarumbwa said his initiative will be through animation, with a new show on social media, which he said will help both children and adults to develop strong reading skills, study other cultures, model positive character traits and discover a love for stories. Tarumbwa, whose works have been used as an example by Animation Software manufacturers like Toon Boom, is a National Arts Merit Award (NAMA) nominee and has won the Zimbabwe International Film Festival Award for Animation for “Most Promising Film Director”. In an interview with The Herald, Tarumbwa said the new online show will be called “The Open Ngano Collaboration” and viewers will have a sense of ownership, as they participate and get to hear themselves in the final production. “This initiative is about oral tradition and the telling of ‘ngano’ by families who are gathered together around a fire,” he said. “This used to be a part of our culture. My team and I have decided to bring back the ‘ngano’ in an animated format. It is not a new concept or a borrowed one, but just reviving what has been there. “It is just that we have done it differently by asking people to check and work with our script. One can choose a character they love, and then record themselves as they read that character’s dialogue.” Tarumbwa said he will start animating the ngano when all the voice notes would have been combined. “I decided to do this initiative in order to digitally unite us all,” he said. “Like we used to be, back in the day as families, telling each other stories. A tradition that sadly died out, before most of us could fully experience it because of WhatsApp and other social media applications which can’t give a person direct chatting.” Tarumbwa said the show will be on social media platforms where everyone can access them. “It shall be made available on YouTube and (if all goes well) we hope to also put it up on locally-grown Zimbabwean streaming platforms like Kraal Network, and Play Afrika TV,” he said. “So far, in the first episode we have had interest from eight people. Many others contacted me saying they had not heard about the deadline, but they are submitting. Once the episode is animated, we shall send out another script and ask for more volunteers.” Tarumbwa promised to air the show weekly, depending on financial resources. “I also intend to use this as a vehicle for us to showcase and discover gifted voices that never tried voice acting before. “Or even showcase those who simply lack a platform. Unlike other types of online content ‘The Open Ngano Collaboration’ leaves audiences with a sense of ownership, as they participate and get to hear themselves in the final production. We looking for sponsors so that we can stream weekly.” Asked who his role model is, Tarumbwa said; “Growing up it used to be Walter Elias Disney, but now my inspiration comes from too many places. Biblical figures, guys in the street, and some individuals around me. “Challenges we are facing right now include lack of adequate equipment and resources. I have ideas that are doable, and ideas that need specialised equipment, especially what I intend to do in the gaming and virtual reality space. That needs both creativity and equipment.” Although many artistes have been crying foul and complaining about how Covid-19 has affected the entertainment industry, Tarumbwa has a different story as he highlighted that the Covid-19 situation was somehow a blessing in disguise. “At first, Covid-19 brought in many contracts,” he said. “Companies were very excited to remotely use digital content creators. But now, the contracts for the kind of work I do have dried up. Covid-19 has also made it hard to do screenings of my work, something that I had been building up back to 2019.”