The Herald LONDON. — Cristiano Ronaldo shunned fizzy drinks giant Coca-Cola by moving bottles off-screen and telling fans to drink water. But, the footballer has made millions from advertising “unhealthy products” in the past. The Portuguese star’s stunt at a press conference, ahead of his team’s 3-0 Euros victory against Hungary, cost the brand US$4 billion. The share price for Coca-Cola, which is one of the competition’s sponsors, dropped from US$56,10 to US$55.22 —lowering their market value from US$242 billion to US$238 billion. While the 36-year-old footballer is known to be a health fanatic, in the past he’s lent his name, image and support to junk food and fizzy drink companies. Sponsorship deals have helped to top up the £28 million-a-year Juventus salary by hundreds of millions. Ronaldo’s recent Coca-Cola swipe comes in spite of him promoting countless products, which according to Forbes made him football’s first billionaire. Despite blasting the carbonated drinks company, the football ace seemed more than happy to promote them in the past. In the resurfaced clip, Ronaldo was featured on the front of a Coca-Cola can and displayed a number of his legendary football skills. Early into the advert, the star beamed after giant droplets of the fizzy-drink fell into his mouth. After scoring a goal into the top-right-hand corner of the net, the mulleted star raced towards the screen in celebration before the ad ended. It’s not known how much he was paid to appear in the advert, which was believed to have been broadcast in 2006. On Monday, Ronaldo took aim at his former employer, Coca-Cola, and told fans “agua” — the Portuguese word for water – as he pushed the bottles out of view of the camera. Some eagle-eyed fans were quick to point out the hypocrisy of the footballer’s decision online, including one who said “his views on Coke is BS”. A second questioned how Juventus would “generate the astronomic pay he gets” without big sponsors and a third claimed Ronaldo was “silly” for moving the bottle “to prove his point”. — The Sun.