The Herald Talent Bope
Arts Reporter
Angela Chirenda-Rugara (69) of Norton is expected to launch an anthology of poems this Saturday titled “Emotional Evolution”. Rugara, whose stage name is Pikitai The Poet, started her poetry writing carrier in 2019 and has so far produced a compilation of 32 poems which speaks about various issues which people encounter in daily lives as they mingle during the journey of life. In an interview, Pikitai said she was proud to discover such an ability at an old age and exhibited determination to write more poetry collections. “I am very proud to be finding my new talents at 69 years. I didn’t know that I was sitting on such a talent. This is my first compilation and I want to write more poems. I’m determined to fulfil that.” Pikitai is nicknamed the Headmaster in the poetry industry.  She explained how she came up with her “Emotional Evolution” anthology. “This gathered record of poems in the book seeks to show ‘Emotional Evolution’ experienced not just by me as an artist, but by a stranger walking alone or a friend who misses a loved one or a mother who believes in internalising emotions,” said Pikitai. “The greatest intent of this work being that it’s okay for one to express themselves as they feel. The natural answer from most people when asked how they are is ‘fine or okay’, these two words hide a lot of unexpressed emotions. I have seen smiles with sad eyes. As people read I hope they find themselves in the anthology and learn to express their feelings in a civil way.” The anthology was published in July 2020 and its launch was delayed by the impact of Covid-19. Pikitai said she wanted to launch the compilation on her online platforms, but felt that the impact was very low. “The challenges in launching the book earlier were mainly around the Covid-19 pandemic,” she said. “I could have launched it online, but felt its impact would not be the same. “There is nothing that can stop me. I have experienced so much in life and I must share and continue learning new things. The only thing I won’t do is scuba diving and bungee jumping, I die a thousand deaths.” Pikitai explains some of the poems that were part of the anthology. “There is this other poetry called ‘Interaction’. In every interaction I made in my life I went away having learnt a thing or two. Every God’s creation has a lesson to teach if we could take time to observe or listen. “I do give every interaction time even when I am in a hurry to do something. In that rash I have come out wiser from the interactions.” Pikitai said “You” is a poem that encourages one to be who they are, and discourages going with the flow because one may sink into depths that they would never escape. “Another one is called ‘Love’, since for one to be able to love they need to love themselves first so that they know how to love another,” she said. “If you don’t respect yourself how then can you respect someone else? So it all starts with you.” The other interesting one is called “Words”, which Pikitai said if not properly handled, they were powerful to influence a certain constructive or destruction path.