The Herald Talent Bope-Arts Reporter OK Zimbabwe will tomorrow host a virtual concert as part of the events to mark the end of  the popular Grand Challenge. The concert which will be broadcast live on Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation Television (ZBCTV), Zimbabwe Newspapers Television (ZimpapersTV), Nash TV as well as OK online platforms would run from 6pm to 8pm on all platforms. OK said the measures were meant to contain the spread of Covid-19 which has wreaked havoc globally, adding all the events will be conducted virtually. The extended version of the concert will continue on OK Facebook page till late. Musicians lined up to perform include Nutty O, Anita Jaxon, Poptain, Asaph, Enzo Ishall, Holly Ten, Levels and Fantan. “We have gone virtual, digital — last year we did not run the promotion because we were not ready to respond to the Covid-19 implications of no crowding. “The execution was affected and we have now perfected the promotion that we can run an effective one during the Covid-19 period, making sure we are doing it in line with all the World Health Organisation and Government protocols and at the same time keeping it as exciting as ever.” During the campaihn, customer’s registration was not conducted physically through coupons, but digitally through applications on phones. “Above all, one will not just be winning the car at the end, but also winning every day in goods prizes and in cash prizes during the promotion at every store. “I think the most exciting issue is that this vehicle which people normally used to win at the race course by being there you can now win it from the comfort of your lounge or your house, you could be even herding your cattle as long as you have your phone. “They will phone you to say you are a winner, answer a few questions and then you are the winner. So this is all being done digitally, the draw is digital it’s an exciting moment we have reached.” The familiar tagline “Shop at OK Where Everyone is Winner” this year made way for “More Winners, Great Savings, More Smiles”, which was in line with fulfilling OK’s promise to reward its customers and give them exceptional experience. For this year’s Grand Challenge Promotion, participating customers who purchased $1 000 worth of products at any OK Zimbabwe outlet across the country, stand to win the grand prize of one Toyota 4×4 double cab vehicle tomorrow.