The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Writer Artistes and local creatives have hailed their partnerships with the corporate world in pushing brands, particularly at a time the Covid-19 lockdown has made it impossible for them to perform and make money. The majority of local artistes used to rely on earnings from live performances to survive and many have become destitute because of the Covid-19 restrictions. A number of them have engaged the corporate world in promotional material on social media, while others have resorted to taking part in online shows. In an interview, some of the local artistes said they welcomed such initiatives during these trying times and hope things will be back to normal soon. There are artistes who have benefited from such deals to an extent of getting houses, food, clothes, or land to help them sustain their livelihoods. But obviously this cannot go on for long. Some believe the deals are more of exploiting the artistes, taking advantage of the current situation. But world over, artistes, including popular names such as Beyonce Knowles and Kim Kardashian, have been known to work with corporates to maximise their brand power.. Bulawayo-based musician Jeys Marabini, told The Herald Arts that brand partnerships were a welcome move as artistes can earn a living, while adding value to their work. “It’s a very good thing to partner with corporates because besides earning money it adds value to your brand. “What it just shows is that corporates respect the work that we do as musicians and they have seen and followed our work over time and have the confidence to engage us. “I have been in the music industry for over 35 years and getting such recognition shows that they recognise our efforts. All we need is the staying power and patience in the work that we do. We need to be professional all the time and that way we attract good publicity and add value to those that engage us.” Marabini, who recently worked with Nicholas Zakaria on a Father’s Day promotional video for a local bank, said he was honoured to participate in such work. “Musicians in the mould of Madzibaba Zakaria are rare finds. The man is extremely talented and has nurtured so much talent in Zimbabwe, but he remains humble and accessible to all. I was, therefore, honoured to appear in the same  video with him for a local bank’s commercial. “The possibilities are too many and I am hoping for more such opportunities given my track record over the years.” Socialite Lorraine Guyo said there were positives born out of partnering corporates and that had become a source of livelihood for many artistes and creatives. Guyo is still basking in glory after landing a role in an upcoming Netflix film, ‘‘The Bad Bishop’’, where she is set to star as Candy, with shooting scheduled to start in September in Limpopo, South Africa. “I work with different brands. As creatives, we have various ways of pushing products and brands and I am happy that a good number of corporates are tapping into this wisdom as they seek to stay relevant during this lockdown period,” said Guyo. “The majority of our people have a lot to deal with given the Covid-19 related challenges and the best way to capture their imagination is through unveiling entertaining, yet captivating content that helps them understand your brand’s products and services. “I have benefited a lot from this arrangement and I remain open to more engagements, it’s a big plus for the creative industry.” Zakaria, who is working with various corporates, said partnerships have been helpful as he was surviving through them. “The majority of us solely rely on live performances and we are really grateful for the partnership deals we are having with corporates. “As musicians and influencers, we boast of large followers and we hold sway in brand and product positioning and the partnerships with corporates have created a win-win situation,” said Zakaria. “For me, much of this has come through my management agency and I am really grateful.” Zakaria said has sealed many endorsement deals and received corporate support from players in the banking sector, food and fashion industry as well as car dealers. While partnerships between the corporate world and creative industry are generally welcome, some corporates have shunned such engagements for fear of tarnishing their brands given the unruly behaviour of some artistes and creatives.