The Herald LONDON. — Raheem Sterling insists he is blocking out any noise surrounding his future to focus on Euro 2020 amid reports linking him with both Barcelona and Arsenal. A dip in form over the back end of the season has led to speculation suggesting Sterling could be one of the players offloaded by Pep Guardiola this summer. The Manchester City boss admitted he is struggling to keep all of his players happy, particularly those who are not playing regularly, in what appeared to be a nod towards the likes of Sterling and teammate Aymeric Laporte. But Sterling says he is actively choosing to ignore any rumours he could be departing the Etihad this summer. Asked by TalkSport how he deals with the speculation, he replied: “Do what they done before we had social media. Don’t check anything, don’t look at anything. That’s the most important thing.” Sterling still has two years left to run on his City contract, with talks believed to be in the offing over an extension. However, if City did want to sell the forward — who turns 27 in December — now would be the ideal time if they want to receive a maximum fee. That said, Barcelona’s financial restraints would make it difficult for them to afford Sterling in a straight cash transfer, though City could be tempted on a part-exchange deal, while a link-up with Mikel Arteta at Arsenal seems a more fanciful notion, despite his verdict on his old coach. As far as Sterling is concerned, though, his only immediate thoughts are in helping England at this summer’s international tournament. Despite his indifferent form in recent months, along with the extra competition for places, Sterling is adamant he is in the perfect frame of mind to make a big impact for his country. “I am feeling good,” he added. “It is all about mentality. You can play a lot of games but if mentally you are not happy, if mentally you are down, okay the tournament could be physically demanding. “But if you are happy and raring to go, that is the most important thing. It is where your head is at and mind space. And right now my mindset is smile and be happy.” Sterling’s position is one of several question marks leading into England’s opening game against Croatia on Sunday, but general feeling is his experience is likely to earn him a starting berth. — The Mirror.