The Herald Illumination, as all good designers know, is a crucial element for any interior design scheme. Well-executed lighting— by way of dimmers, LED lighting and old-fashion DIY — can jazz up a humdrum space, provide a splash of chic and enhance the ambiance of an entire home. “The best way to screw up good architecture is bad lighting,” says architect Charlie Simmons, of Charlie & Co Design. Even if you had millions of dollars to spend on beautiful cabinetry, countertops, furniture and wall coverings, “if you are not going to highlight with appropriate materials, you are not going to appreciate it”. Casting your home in the right light is like creating a work of art. The secret is to know exactly what type of light you’re working with. Here’s a quick guide: Ambient lighting from recessed or flush ceiling fixtures casts an overall relaxed glow or bright light. Task lighting beams the spotlight onto a specific area such as a kitchen counter or desk; accent lighting, including rail or track lighting or clip on lights, highlights textures, paintings, sculptures or other decor. Decorative wall sconces and other wall fixtures cast indirect light. Small accent lamps, sometimes with LED bulbs, add pizzazz to bookshelves and fireplace mantels. Torchieres or floor lamps with an upward glow or more traditional shade brighten corners and reading nooks and add extra light to a dark room. Once you’ve decided on the desired lighting effect, the devil is in the details. When designing a home, Simmons creates a lighting plan for each space depending on the function of each room. Chandeliers, for example, provide vintage glamour and elegance as well as ambient light. They can hang – alone or in pairs – in the dining room, living room, bedroom or even the bath. To make a big difference quickly, replace switches with dimmers. Dimmers in bathrooms, dining rooms and family rooms allow you to “adjust lighting to a more comfortable and/or a more desirable mood” and create “more dynamic interiors,” according to Joe Rey-Barreau, consulting director of education for the American Lighting Association. To add drama in a long hallway with a low ceiling, repeat the same flush-mounted ceiling fixture every few feet. To add style in a room with a low ceiling, select a style that is wider than it is tall for best effect. Most of all, don’t be afraid to layer lighting within the same space for different purposes. Strips of eco-friendly, light-emitting diodes, known as LED lighting, are flexible and can be used to illuminate architectural details in a rainbow of colors. These light modules enliven under cabinet lighting, under counter edges or the toe kicks on kitchen islands. On the staircase, they can also make it easier to see where you’re stepping. Pendant lights – lighting that hangs from a wire or pole – suspended over kitchen islands or breakfast room tables are a great way to make a statement. For something a little fancier, puck lights (small, round discs of light found in your local hardware store) in glass-front cabinets and buffet tables create a dazzling showroom effect. – Forbes.com