The Herald LAGOS. – The Nigerian pastor and founder of the Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN), TB Joshua, will be buried on July 9. Family sources say the televangelist, who died on June 5, will be buried in Ikotun, Lagos state, and will be succeeded by his wife Evelyn as SCOAN leader. Initially, reports indicated the pastor was to be buried in his home town of Arigidi-Akoko, Ondo state, as demanded by the traditional ruler of the town. However, it is reported that the pastor’s family and church elders intervened and decided the pastor will be buried in Lagos. “Since they said the reason was spiritual, the family agreed with them,” a church source said. According to the SCOAN’s statement the late cleric would be buried on the premises of his church in Lagos State. However, the statement states that the Synagogue will hold a week long church service from July 5 to 11. The church statement, “We know you are aware that our father in the Lord, Prophet TB Joshua, has been taken home to be with the Lord. We want to assure you that nothing will stop the work of God at The SCOAN from moving on. Prophet TB Joshua may be absent in the body but he is present in the spirit. “We are currently preparing for the week-long service from Monday 5th to Sunday 11th July 2021 in honour of Prophet TB Joshua’s life and legacy. SCOAN elders have also met and selected Evelyn as TB Joshua’s successor as there was no succession plan for the church. “Someone must take charge immediately and give spiritual direction on the mode of service continuity. So much spiritual and financial efforts went into building SCOAN and it cannot just waste away,’’ a top aide said. “None of the pastors were trained to succeed him. I would have known if any exists. For now, the wife has taken charge.’’ Evelyn, a senior SCOAN pastor, confirmed the funeral arrangements when she received Lagos state governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu.  She said her husband’s death came as a surprise. Evelyn was married to TB Joshua for 25 years and they have three children.  One of their children, Sarah, is reported to have given birth to a baby boy on June 12, the day her late father would have celebrated his 58th birthday.  – Agencies