The Herald Robson Sharuko Senior Sports Editor HE had been away for a while but, after an extended 65-day break in Europe, ZIFA announced Warriors coach, Zdravko Logarusic, was set to arrive in Harare yesterday. Loga had been away in his home country, Croatia, since he left, on March 30. He flew out of Harare, just a day after the Warriors lost 0-2 to Zambia, in a 2021 AFCON qualifier, at the National Sports Stadium. He was initially expected to return last month, to take charge of the team’s preparations, for their opening 2022 World Cup group qualifier, against Bafana Bafana. The match had been scheduled for this weekend. However, after the opening games were moved to September, amid concerns about the state of stadiums and Covid-19 complications, Loga deferred his return. His employers, at ZIFA, threw their full support behind him, to douse the flames of concerns related to his extended holiday, in his homeland. “ZIFA would like to state that Warriors coach, Zdravko Logarusic, is always doing his job no matter his geographical location,’’ the association said, in a statement, released by their spokesperson, Xolisani Gwesela. “In the digital age, he has all the tools he needs to track and monitor all players in his plans. “While he is in Europe, other members of his technical team are always on the ground monitoring locally-based players and those in leagues on the continent. “The Association has no qualms with the coach spending some time, with his family briefly, while he also continues to work from Croatia. “The media and the public alike have no reason whatsoever to worry about Logarusic’s time in Croatia because all his work is going on as per his agreement with ZIFA. “It is also imperative to emphasise that even if Loga is here in Zimbabwe, the bulk of his players are in Europe and other leagues, and very few of them are local based players. “The coach has been doing splendid work by following up and assessing these players and ZIFA is impressed by the coach’s work.’’ The association also announced Loga would return, once the domestic top-flight league programme, which has started with the Chibuku Super Cup, got underway. Yesterday, ZIFA could even afford to throw in a teaser, on Twitter, directed at those who have been missing Loga, as they announced his return to Zimbabwe. “Miss him? Loga is coming back “home” this afternoon,’’ ZIFA tweeted on their official Twitter account, complete with an attachment of the picture of the coach. But, the tweet drew mixed responses, which were posted on the association’s account, and here are some of them: @GeryMoreyour “Tell Loga that I said Arubi deserves a chance, so far, he is one of the best.’’ @JOSEPH9215736 “Any update on friendlies?’’ @online_zifa “There are no friendlies this window.’’ Nelly Makanhiwa @shaisamufaro “The one win coach.’’ Tinashe Tinaishe @TinaisheTyna “Our obsession with these foreigners (disappoints) for real.’’ @Bosstawazy “Tell Loga to play seniors for COSAFA, in preparation for World Cup qualifiers, not those fringe players.’’ @elij_a “Anoita nezvei?’’ Hillary M Seke @SekeHillary “Tourist baba.’’ Tawanda Shumba @EngineerTawanda “Unfortunately, you guys couldn’t provide him with friendlies. Otherwise, I hope, he uses the COSAFA games to try out the untried foreign-based players like Munjoma before WC (World Cup) qualifiers.’’ @ComradeCde “He is the kind of a guy, who goes missing for a year, and nobody notices.’’ @Trust04432258 “Well come back Mr Loga.’’ @sibslee85 “If doing nothing was a person.’’ @Duke73786474 “He’s overrated for nothing, bring back Mapeza.’’ While You Were Away, This Is What Happened Molefi Ntseki was fired from his job as Bafana Bafana head coach, after failing to take them to the 2021 AFCON finals, and was replaced by Belgian gaffer, Hugo Broos, who also brought with him, Cedomir Janevski of Macedonia, as his assistant. Interest in Ntseki’s work, though, isn’t over for Loga given the former Bafana gaffer has bounced back, as head of technical and youth development at Kaizer Chiefs, meaning he is someone he will regularly talk to about the condition of Khama Billiat. Ghana’s Black Stars, the other members of our 2022 World Cup group, also reinforced their technical squad by bringing in Dutchman, Patrick Greveraars, as one of their assistant coaches who will work under head coach, CK Akonoor. Tino Kadewere’s quest for both Champions League football, and the Marc Vivien Foe award, came short, but that won’t mask the brilliance of his debut season in French Ligue 1 football. His coach, Rudi Garcia, though, paid the price, for the Lyon’s failure to secure a Champions League slot and was fired with Dutchman, Peter Bosz, being hired to take charge of the team. Marvelous Nakamba clocked 50 matches for Aston Villa, overshadowing everyone on the park, in a match against Chelsea, winning the man-of-the-match award, just days before the Blues of London were crowned champions of Europe. Oh, by the way, we fought for you, and your boys, to try and get some friendly internationals, during this month but, unfortunately, we didn’t win the battle. Maybe that’s what they mean when they say in this game, you win some, lose some and draw some.