The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo-Senior Arts Reporter Children of music legends are usually expected to take over and carry the baton of the legacy into the future in the event of their parents’ death or retirement. At times the children are not as talented as their parents, but there is that urge to preserve the legacy and carry it forward. In rare cases, a son-in-law steps up to take over the reins. In some cases, siblings or cousins also grab the opportunity to fill that void and carry on the legacy, but without much success. In some cases, the takeover results in the total collapse of the legacy. However, Trust Nzou — a new Afro-fusion crooner and brother-in-law to the late Prince Musarurwa — has vowed to remember the late singer in style and fashion. Not only is Nzou remembering Prince, but he has vowed to salute the late Skokian and jazz legend Augustine Musarurwa. Both Prince and Augustine hailed from Zvimba where Nzou who is riding high with his new album “Challenge Accepted” also hails from. The album carries five tracks “Nditore”, “Enda Zvako”, “Shinga Murudo”, “Ndoiudza Ani” and “Vhurai Musuwo”. A fortnight ago, he released two singles “Raramo” and “Shinga Wedangwe”. In an interview, Nzou said the late   Augustine and Prince had put Zvimba on the world map and he was challenged to protect their legacy since he is married intothe family. “I am happily married to Prudence Musarurwa who is the granddaughter of the late great jazz icon, Augustine Musarurwa. “My wife is sister to the late Prince (Musarurwa) who died in 2020 and I was touched after we lost him. “Prince used to encourage me to record, but I took long and he died before I recorded and released my album. “I have now realised that procrastination does not pay and I am committed to keep their legacy alive,” he said. Nzou, who doubles as a transport logistics manager for a local company, said there was nothing wrong in him representing Zvimba and honouring his in-laws. “Of course many people would ask me why I decided to take this route, but it is a sign of respect that I am showing to my in-laws. “The late great legend Augustine Musarurwa represented our father’s generation while Prince also did the same by representing our generation. “As such, I have decided to take it upon myself and represent the family,” he said. Nzou who has been holding a series of shows, said he was also affected by the Covid-19 lockdown. “I had lined-up a number of shows to honour my in-laws as they inspired me to venture into music. “However, life is at stake and we can’t take a risk since Covid-19n is real,” he added.