The Herald Nyore Madzianike Senior Court Reporter The courts have resolved to impose heavy penalties on all cases of abuse of dangerous drugs to deter people, especially youths, from using, possessing or cultivating such drugs. At the moment, many young people are abusing various drugs, particularly crystal meth commonly known as mutoriro in street lingo. Chief Magistrate Mr Munamato Mutevedzi also urged the Government, other stakeholders and society at large, to unite and fight against the use of dangerous drugs especially by young people. He said this yesterday when he sentenced Mathew Hopkins (29) to two and half years in jail for possessing crystal meth. Hopkins was initially jailed for four years, before Mr Mutevedzi set aside 18 months for five years on condition he does not commit a similar offence within that period. He admitted to possessing mutoriro, which he said was for his consumption after buying it in Mbare, Harare. “Given this frightening situation, this court has no doubt that extraordinary measures to stem this abuse, starting with the imposition of effectively deterrent sentences on those convicted of crimes under the realm of dangerous drugs, must be resorted to,” he said. “Central Government, the police, the courts, all other institutions involved in the administration of justice and society have to come together to deal with these threats to society. The future of Zimbabwean children depends on those efforts. “Cases of abuse of dangerous drugs, especially crystal meth, are being brought to court with alarming regularity.” Mr Mutevedzi urged Government to increase awareness on the dangers of abusing drugs among young people saying it is a collective responsibility. He said if the abuse of dangerous drugs was left unchecked, the country will end up with “zombies”. “The court, therefore, in addition to any measures which it can lawfully take to play its part to stem the abuse of crystal meth, also calls upon Government to step up awareness campaigns on the dangers of drug abuse amongst the youth and other responsible citizens. “We share collective responsibility as a nation. Drug abuse cuts across all cultural, religious, racial or economic divides. It affects everyone,” he said. The Chief Magistrate added that the mere fact that it was bought on the streets of Mbare, proved points to a high prevalence of drug abuse. Tonderai Sekiwa (45) of Southerton, Harare, was also jailed by for 18 months by regional magistrate Mr Stanford Mambanje after he was found guilty of possessing crystal meth, dagga and cultivating dagga. Mr Mambanje sentenced him to 16 months for possessing and cultivating dagga, before setting aside six months on condition that he does not commit a similar offence in the next five years. He also jailed him for a year for possessing crystal meth before setting aside four months on condition of good behaviour. Sekiwa will serve 18 months effective.