The Herald Beeson Mashanda-Geographic and Environmental studies at MSU Youths are one of the most important untouched resource in terms of promoting and facilitating community growth. While because of our behaviours as the saying goes one bad apple spoils the whole box we as the youths have become passengers in the decisions that are made in or societies and even in the so called youth initiatives there is minimum youth participation. It is essential to note that although we turn a blind eye to the youths, youths are the most important members of the community whose views and contributions are important to build a healthy and functional updated community. Staying behind the limelight is not working for the communities as we have found ourselves lagging behind over and over again in developing communities because one aspect is missing from all of this and that aspect is the fresh and innovative ideas that promote growth. When President Emmerson Mnangagwa said Zimbabwe is open for business, not only did he mean for foreign investors but the statement was directed towards us as the youths to open businesses that solve the societal problems that we have right now in Zimbabwe. Sitting and waiting for employment in companies won’t help solve the problem in our communities but rather creating your own business can help generations of youths in our communities. It is time that we intervene to revive the communities It is rather impressive to note that some youths are collaborating on online platforms to come up with ways to improve the communities and some have also gone ahead to come together raise funds and give back to the communities that they grew up in for example we have Claire cakes which is run by the ever active and vibrant Claire, this company has been working with the less privileged in communities and has been on the forefront in helping the girl child especially in times we are in where the girl child is most vulnerable. Ladies and gentleman we have a role to play in our communities, we know what is ailing our communities and we know what to do to improve the situations in our communities, let’s work on it, our success will also bring smiles to our peers, younger people and even adults too This article should also appeal to our leaders in communities, without our leaders who have experienced some situations we are facing we are lost sheep, we’re travelling in the dark. In each district or ward there should be youth centres or a recognized place for youths where youths go to talk about their issues and seek help in terms of careers. It is from these centres that new ideas for development might come from, I think that events from these centres will benefit the community as a cooperation of youths and the local leaders has the potential to evolve how we view youth programs that have minimum participation.