The Herald Pauline Mhuka-Magavu Sports Reporter RHINOS QUEENS have added two more players to their arsenal as they look to make a strong impression in their maiden dance in the inaugural CAF Women Champions League. The army side, who are set to make history by becoming the first Zimbabwean women’s side to play in the continent’s inter-club competition, have roped in the duo of Purity Mugayi and Concelia Madotsa from Mutare side, Faith Drive. Rhinos Queens coach, Kuda Matuwi, told The Herald they were assembling a competitive side, for the tournament. Mugayi is centre-back while Madotsa is a midfielder. “We have brought in two players, who are really talented, the players are meant to add value to the team,’’ he said. “We are playing in this tournament, for the first time, and our aim is to be competitive. “Right now, the format of this tournament is not clear but we hope to give it our best shot.” Rhinos Queens were selected to represent Zimbabwe in the inaugural Women’s Champions League, on account of them having won the 2019 Super League. No competitive football was played last year. Matuwi confirmed he holds the required badges, to lead the side, after CAF ruled this week that no coach will be allowed to sit on the bench, without a CAF C Licence. “The Confederation of African Football has decreed that head coaches of clubs participating in the CAF Women Champions League should have attained, at least, a CAF C license,” said ZIFA in a statement. “Black Rhinos Queens is Zimbabwe’s representative in the inaugural women’s Champions League. “No qualification requirements have been set for assistant coaches, and other members of the technical team, at the moment but changes will be introduced gradually in coming seasons. “Club licensing is a framework that is being used to transform all aspects of football to professional standards. “Standardisation of coaching qualifications is one of the entry points of club licensing to ensure that only qualified coaches are allowed to train footballers.” The CAF Women Champions League finals will be held in Morocco in November. The participating teams in the COSAFA region are Prisons XI (Botswana), Manzini Wanderers (Swaziland), Lesotho Defence Force (Lesotho), Costa Do Sol(Mozambique), Tyra Magic (Namibia), and Mamelodi Sundowns (South Africa), Green Buffaloes (Zambia) and Black Rhinos Queens (Zimbabwe). The winner from the regional tournament will go on to represent the region, at the CAF Women’s Champions League finals, in Morocco. COSAFA are yet to finalise the hosts for this tournament which might be played either next month or in August.