The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter CHIBUKU Super Cup Group One leaders, Dynamos, have wasted no time in preparation for the resumption of the tournament after players and staff conducted Covid-19 tests this morning as required by the Premier Soccer League. The Glamour Boys are expected to send the results of the tests to the PSL Medical Committee who will then make a recommendation whether training should proceed or not. Dynamos lead the six-team Group One with 11 points and were unbeaten before the tournament was shelved at the end of the first round matches. The Chibuku Super Cup was among the sports activities that were affected after Government applied a blanket ban on mass gatherings and sporting activities to curb the spiraling Covid-19 cases in the country. However, the league was given the greenlight on Tuesday to continue with the competition under stricter Covid-19 protocols. The authorities were satisfied with the mitigatory strategies put in place by the football leadership and gave the nod for the season-opening cup competition to resume. But before the teams regroup for training, the PSL have instructed the clubs to conduct Covid-19 tests as a pre-requisite to the recommencement of training sessions. Fixtures will also be released after the PSL Medical Committee is satisfied with the health and safety of all the players and officials involved. “Following the green light given to resume the Chibuku Super Cup, the PSL has informed all PSL clubs to conduct Covid-19 testing under the supervision and direction of the PSL Sports Medicine Committee before resuming training sessions. “The Chibuku Super Cup fixtures will only be released after testing has been done and results submitted to the PSL. Matches shall be postponed if there are seven or more reported cases at the same period of time. “We urge all the clubs to adhere to the Covid-19 guidelines and protocols to contain the spread of the virus. We are grateful to the Government of Zimbabwe, the Sports and Recreation Commission, ZIFA and all our partners for enabling us to resume play,” said the PSL in a statement.