The Herald HARARE — The final round of the Zimbabwean edition of the 20th Chinese Bridge contest was held at the University of Zimbabwe in the capital Harare on Saturday. The Chinese Bridge is an annual worldwide Chinese speaking and performance competition for international students that aims to strengthen the world’s understanding of the Chinese language and culture. This year’s contest was held under the theme “One world, one family”. Through speeches and cultural performances, six contestants from different departments of the university shared their Chinese learning stories and showcased their mastery of the Chinese language. The contestants also had to answer five cultural and current affairs knowledge quiz about China, before a second round to highlight their talents through various cultural performances. Rebokile Setoboli, a final year Economics student, won the highest scores after impressing the judges with her mastery of the Chinese language and her appreciation of the Chinese culture. Speaking to the media after the contest, Setoboli said she expects to represent Zimbabwe at the final Chinese bridge completion for international students in China later this year. “I am supposed to take part in the international competition, and I am going to do my best to represent this country well and learn more,” she said. “Mostly, I just want to learn more about Chinese, increase my Chinese level and keep on getting better because it’s still not that good but it’s improving,” she said. As an economics major, Setoboli decided to minor in Chinese due to China’s increased economic engagement with Zimbabwe. “But when you look at how China is like a world superpower in terms of economics, and also the good relationship between Zimbabwe and China in terms of economics, again, I think being an economist who can speak Chinese is very necessary in Zimbabwe and in the world,” said Setoboli. The Chinese Bridge competition, which is open to college students under the age of 30, is organised by Beijing-based Confucius Institute Headquarters. The Confucius Institute at the University of Zimbabwe opened its doors in 2007. Since then, the institution has been the anchor for the exchange of language and culture between Zimbabwe and China. — Xinhua