The Herald Resuming on 82-4 with another 143 runs still required just to make South Africa bat again, Roston Chase moved from his overnight 21 not to a top score of 62 (156 balls, 7×4, 1×6) before chopping a delivery from left-arm spinner Maharaj onto his stumps to end any realistic hopes of a fightback. First to go was Jermain Blackwood who obligingly fell straight into the trap set for him by driving a full-length delivery from Rabada straight to Rassie van der Dussen stationed at short mid-off. His 13 spanned 45 balls but it was only a matter of time before he played his favourite shot. Former captain Jason Holder (4) completely misjudged a straight delivery from Maharaj, played no shot and heard the ‘death rattle’ as the ball hit the top of off stump. Chase did play a shot at another Maharaj ‘straight-onner’ but the ball was too close to him for the cut shot and a bottom edge clattered into the stumps. Maharaj finished with the outstanding analysis of 11-5-23-2. Rahkeem Cornwall (0) showed little stomach for the fight and drove another full-length delivery from Rabada to Van der Dussen at an orthodox mid-off position and the hosts were 141-8. Rabada completed his five-wicket haul by bowling a gutsy Joshua de Silva (9 from 51 balls) and the match ended when Anrich Nortje (3-46) had last man Jayden Seales (3) caught by Wiaan Mulder in the slip cordon. It was an outstanding all-round test match for the tourists who dismissed the West Indies for a feeble 97 in the first innings after they had chosen to bat first with Lungi Ngidi taking 5-19 and Anrich Nortje 4-35 giving him a match haul of 7-81. If the bowlers laid the platform for victory, it was Man of the Match, Quinton de Kock, who built most impressively on it with a brilliant, unbeaten 141 from 170 balls with 12 fours and seven sixes. “I haven’t given it much thought yet but it is very satisfying, obviously. We paced the innings well and I was able to up the tempo at the right time to give us a good lead,” De Kock said. “It was an outstanding all-round effort,” said Proteas captain Dean Elgar. “It has been a two-week process leading up to this, a lot of planning, I would like to think it didn’t happen because of luck. I asked for individuals to score hundreds and take five-fors, and we had three of those accolades. — AFP.