The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S Ambassador to Tanzania, Anselem Sanyatwe, has hailed the country’s players, who are setting the stage alight, in the East African nation. The Azam FC trio of Prince Dube, Bruce Kangwa and Never Tigere were hosted by the ambassador, after paying him a visit at his residency, in Dar es Salaam yesterday. The three players were accompanied by Azam FC chief executive, Abdulkarim Amin, and the club’s representative in Zimbabwe, George Deda. Sanyatwe was, particularly, impressed by the exploits of striker Dube, who is the leading scorer in the Tanzanian Premiership, with 14 goals. “These guys asked for the meeting and I am glad we met,” said Sanyatwe. “I can say the programme was highly beneficial. I am also happy with the performance of our players here. ‘‘From what I have heard from the Azam CEO, and what we gather when we carry out our routine duties in the public, the Tanzanians are very grateful, and proud of the talent, that comes from Zimbabwe. “For now, Prince Dube is the top goal-scorer, which is a topical thing in football here. ‘‘I think more clubs are taking a lead from the Zimbabwean players. “It also looks like more Tanzanian clubs could be interested in tapping into the Zimbabwean talent. ‘‘I am also happy the players are being looked after very well. I have talked to the three players and they are very happy with their careers here. “I also received souvenirs from Azam Football Club. There is also a special gift to the President, His Excellence Emmerson Mnangagwa, among the souvenirs, and I will make sure it reaches Harare, as soon as possible.” Karim told the Herald from his base yesterday they were humbled by the hospitality they received at the Embassy. “It was a pleasure for us to meet the Ambassador. We are grateful for our Zimbabwean players,’’ he said. ‘‘These guys have a serious commitment to whatever they do and it is not a surprise they are doing well. “So, we had to say thank you to Zimbabwe, by visiting the Ambassador. We also invited him to visit our club, and see the facilities at our complex, when the time permits. “He has also agreed to come and watch our next home match. We have also delivered special gifts, in the form of framed home and away, Azam FC jerseys. ‘‘We can only hope that our football relationships, with the people of Zimbabwe, gets stronger.” Karim also shed light on the recent contract extension by Dube, who has become a subject of intense speculation, following his lightning start to life in Tanzanian football. “Prince has proved he is a very good player, he still had a year on his contract but the technical team, and the management, decided to extend his stay at Azam FC. “So, we sat down with him and his manager, and added two more years. This means he will be with us for the next three years. ‘‘I also want to say that we have not received any formal offers for his services. Everything you read about that issue, on social media, was based on rumours,” said Karim. Azam’s Zimbabwe representative, Deda, said the meeting with the ambassador was key to help players get an appreciation of the investment opportunities back home. “It was a meeting that we facilitated so that the players have an opportunity to interact, and also get to know their ambassador, face-to-face,” said Deda. “We don’t want situations whereby we only want to approach the Embassy when we have problems. ‘‘So, we took this opportunity to talk, laugh and share ideas over a cup of tea, which was brilliant. “Secondly, you know some of these footballers spend a lot of time away from home and there are a lot of Government initiatives being undertaken back home, which they may not be aware of. “We thought, maybe, it was the best time to go and see the ambassador, representing the other players as well, so that they also get to see avenues of investments in Zimbabwe.’’ He said footballers need a fallback position once their careers are over. “These guys will not be playing football for the rest of their lives,’’ said Deda. ‘‘They also want the information on how to invest into their future, and even access to land. “As you might be aware, the Government is in a drive to empower the youth and, for some of these guys, this is their prime time. ‘‘They are the youth, they are the future of Zimbabwe. “So, as Soccer Transfer International, we are looking at helping these guys see how they can invest back home and secure their future, looking at the amount of money they are earning right now. ‘‘In 10 years’ time, probably, they won’t be getting anything closer to that.’’ Kangwa said it was a fruitful meeting. “It’s always a good thing to meet your own people, when you are in a foreign land, so, we are very excited that we have met the ambassador,’’ he said. “Everything went on well and we are very grateful that he spared his time to be with us. ‘‘We know we are well supported here and we can always feel at home when we have the backing of the ambassador.”