The Herald Africa Moyo in VICTORIA FALLS Zimbabwe will honour its pledge made towards the construction of the Pan-African Union (PAPU) headquarters in Arusha, Tanzania, President Mnangagwa has said. Speaking while officially opening the 10th session of the PAPU Plenipotentiary Conference and the 39th ordinary session of the Administrative Council here yesterday, the President said PAPU should ensure the project was completed speedily. “I note that the Pan African Postal Union is undertaking construction of its headquarters in Arusha in collaboration with the government of United People’s Republic of Tanzania. “The Government of Zimbabwe will honour its pledge towards construction works of the headquarters. I urge the Pan African Postal Union to work in unity and more concertedly for the speedy completion of this strategic project,” said the President. It is believed that having a permanent headquarters will ease the financial burden on the union and provide working space for staff as well as the hosting of PAPU meetings. Meanwhile, the President said as the Plenipotentiary Conference undertakes the business of electing personnel for the union, including the secretary general’s post that Postmaster-General of the Zimbabwe Posts Private Limited (Zimpost) Mr Sifundo Chief Moyo, was contesting for last night, there was need to keep in mind the importance of the indispensable principles and values embodied in the African Charter. The values include the advancement of continental integration and ensuring that regional economic communities are adequately represented in the administrative hierarchies of agencies of the African Union, said President Mnangagwa. “At the heart of Pan African lies the values of unity, solidarity and common purpose. These must continue to be forged as we consolidate the independence of Africa towards the realisation of shared development and prosperity for all our people,” he said. Apart from Mr Moyo, the election for the post of PAPU secretary general was being contested for by Mr Sameh Soliman of Egypt, Mr Amadou Abdou Waziri of Niger and Mr Sibiri Michel Kabre of Burkina Faso. However, the Egyptian candidate was disqualified by the credentials committee last night, but there were spirited efforts by delegates from the North African country to have him restored.
Concerns also arose over the Mali and Morocco candidates.
Voting had not started by 2240hrs as delegates continue to haggle.
Candidates are required to file the credentials three months after the advertisement of vacancies in PAPU.