The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga
Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWEAN golfer, Kieran Vincent, continues to make waves in the United States after he was named in the 2021 Golfweek All-America third team. Vincent becomes the second Liberty University player in programme history to be named to a Golfweek All-America listing. The former St George’s pupil has been having a dream season. He was nominated for The Fred Haskins Award watch list, ASUN All-Conference first team, ASUN Championship All-Tournament team, GCAA/PING All-Region and Rock Royer/Mac Rivera Award, the annual award, given to Liberty’s top student athlete. Vincent follows in the footsteps of Robert Karlsson, who was named to the Golfweek All-America third team, in 2012. For his performances Karlson will be inducted into the Liberty Athletics Hall of Fame, in September. It’s a feat which Vincent may achieve if he continues with his fine form. Vincent finished the season with a 70.48 stroke average, setting a new school record. The previous record had been set by Jonathan Yaun with an average of 70.78 in 2019-20. Vincent was ranked as high as number six, in the Golfstat individual national rankings, in April. It is the highest individual ranking in programme history for a Liberty student. He is the programme’s first player to be named to the Fred Haskins Award watch list (top collegiate golfer in the country). The golfer finished top 10, in seven out of nine events, during the spring season and he played 66.7 percent of his rounds, at par or better (18-of-27).  2021 Golfweek All-America Teams First Team John Pak, Florida State;  Noah Goodwin, SMU; Nick Gabrelcik, North Florida; Alex Fitzpatrick, Wake Forest; Pierceson Coody, Texas; Peter Fountain, North Carolina; Davis Thompson, Georgia; Ludvig Aberg, Texas Tech; Eugenio Chacarra, Oklahoma State; Turk Pettit, Clemson Second Team David Puig, Arizona State; Jonathan Brightwell, Oklahoma; Michael Feagles, Illinois; Jacob Bridgeman, Clemson; Ryan Hall, South Carolina; Sam Bennett, Texas A&M; Quade Cummins, Oklahoma; Bo Jin, Oklahoma State; Vincent Norrman, Florida State; Joey Vrzich, Pepperdine Third Team Benjamin Shipp, NC State; Logan McAllister, Oklahoma; Brad Reeves, Arizona; William Moll, Vanderbilt; Austin Eckroat, Oklahoma State; Ryggs Johnston, Arizona State; Chun-An Yu, Arizona State; Kieran Vincent, Liberty; Adrien Dumont De Chassart, Illinois; Dylan Menante, Pepperdine Honourable Mention Ross Steelman, Missouri; Jerry Ji, Illinois; Patrick Welch, Oklahoma; Puwit Anupansuebsai, San Diego State; Travis Vick, Texas; Hugo Townsend, Boise State; Trent Phillips, Georgia; RJ Manke, Pepperdine; Maximilian Steinlechner, NC State; Dan Erickson, Texas A&M; Joshua McCarthy, Pepperdine; Alex Schaake, Iowa; Garett Reband, Oklahoma; McClure Meissner, SMU; Ricky Castillo, Florida; William Holcomb, Sam Houston State; Mark Goetz, West Virginia; Brett Roberts, Florida State; Joe Highsmith, Pepperdine; Albin Bergstrom, South Florida 