The Herald GOLDEN ARROWS, the South African Premiership club who are home to three Zimbabwe international players, have parted ways with their coach Mandla Ncikazi. It’s a surprise development given Ncikazi was even in the running for the Coach of the Season award. The club are home to Knox Mutizwa, Divine Lunga and Danny Phiri. Ncikazi led the Durban club to fourth, in the Premiership race, finishing just three points adrift of third-placed Orlando Pirates. “Lamontville Golden Arrows FC announces that the club along with coach Mandla Ncikazi have reached an agreement to amicably part ways,’’ the club said in a statement. “We would like to thank him for his exceptional service, in different spells, over a 15-year period. “Not only in the first team, but also in the youth structures and the past, present and future stars produced during his time. “He leaves through an open door and like any member of the family, he is welcome back at any time. We wish him well in his future endeavours.’’ Meanwhile, SuperSport United striker, Bradley Grobler’s off-season plans have been revealed. The 33-year-old claimed his first Golden Boot accolade, leading the attack for coach Kaitano Tembo’s men, after netting 16 league goals in the DStv Premiership. The only winner’s medal missing now from Grobler’s collection is a league medal, but Moroka Swallows legend and proud father Les Grobler is proud of his son’s latest achievement. “I’m a very proud dad yes,” Les told KickOff.com. “He’s okay (Bradley), he’s getting a bit excited now that he’s getting a bit of time off. He wants to go to his house, his lodge and his building near Kruger Park. “He’s going to spend a couple of weeks there with his kids and his family now that they’ve finished. “And, yeah, we’ll see what happens after that. It was close at the end of the day. “Those at SuperSport called him in last week and gave him a much-improved offer on his contract. “They’ve guaranteed that they are not selling, but I don’t know quite well what’s happening. “At this stage of his life and career then those become his pension package. At this stage it doesn’t look like he’s going anywhere, even the agents have been quiet so, I don’t know, nobody is saying anything. “But you kinda think that things are happening behind the scenes. “But he hasn’t said anything as of yet, I think in the next two, three weeks he will decide where he stands.” When asked who he thinks is more talented between the two of them, Grobler senior said people told me he was better. “Everybody tells me I was better, but, I’m saying to them he’s proved his worth. He’s played for Bafana and I never played for Bafana. “Although we never had the opportunity, we were never allowed those days because of the (Apartheid) bans. “If it wasn’t for the injuries in the last four seasons, he would be an all-time leading goalscorer in the country. “When he’s played more than 20 games in a season, he always delivered 12 and 15 goals. “He would be very close to (Siyabonga) Nomvethe, very close. So, yeah, I’m happy that finally, all the hard work has come off. “He worked really hard to get to where he is.” — Sports Reporter/KickOff.com.