The Herald Grace Chingoma
Senior Sports Reporter
WARRIORS coach, Zdravko Logarusic, is exchanging notes with the coaches in charge of Premier Soccer League clubs. It’s part of a mission for Croat to exchange ideas, with some of the best technical brains, in the country. The Warriors gaffer is also taking this opportunity to pick ideas, from those on the front-line in the trenches, about the quality of some of the best players, in the domestic Premiership. Loga had been waiting for the top-flight league to start, before he starts his consultative meetings, with the coaches. It’s a welcome initiative and it is expected to enrich the Warriors gaffer with expert knowledge of the best players, on the domestic front, with the recommendation coming from those who work with them, on a daily basis. Loga returned to Zimbabwe last week, after an extended stay in his home country Croatia, to start monitoring the activities of the events in the local Premiership. He is set to travel around the country, where the Chibuku Super Cup matches are being played, to meet with the coaches involved in the tournament. Yesterday, he met with the Harare-based coaches of Group One, whose matches are being played in the capital, for a frank exchange of views. He was in the company of Wellington Mpandare, the general manager of the country’s national teams, who has won Loga’s trust with his passion for the game. Ahead of national assignments, such as the COSAFA Championships, and next year’s CHAN qualification, the Croat wants to assess as much fresh home-based football talent, as possible. Yesterday, he had lunch and a three-hour chat with a group of coaches, who include his two assistants at the Warriors, Dynamos gaffer Tonderai Ndiraya and Harare City’s Lloyd Chitembwe. The other coaches were Yadah’s Genesis Mangombe, Herentals’ Kumbirai Mutiwekuziva and CAPS United gaffer Darlington Dodo. Only ZPC Kariba coach, Godfrey Tamirepi, who is based in the resort town, missed the meeting. Today, Loga will meet Black Rhinos coach, Herbert Maruwa, and Cranborne Bullets gaffer, Nesbert Saruchera. Next week, he is travelling to Bulawayo where he will meet his predecessor, Joey “Mafero’’ Antipas, who is among the Group Two coaches. The coach says he is taking advantage of the resumption of local football to catch up and do some work he was supposed to have done, when he was unveiled last year. His plans were disrupted when domestic football was halted by the lockdown. “Last year, I didn’t have an opportunity to see the players. The league didn’t start,’’ he said. “I was watching all the (Chibuku Super Cup) games live at the weekend. “We have CHAN qualification next year, and some of the players who went to Cameroon early this year, might not be involved in the qualifiers. “So, in the mean time, I am monitoring which players we can get. “We also have COSAFA coming up, so I am looking at players who can also play in that tournament.” In December last year, Loga was largely forced to rely on his assistants, Chitembwe and Ndiraya, in coming up with the CHAN squad, which went to the finals in Cameroon, in January. “I am trying to make my own team,’’ he said. “Last year, the players were recommended to me by my assistant coaches. “But, I am glad I am now able to make my own assessments, from the games I am watching. “I was able to introduce myself formally to the coaches, they gave me some ideas and recommendations on the players, and we spent three hours together and had lunch together.’’ After meeting all the 18 Premiership coaches, Loga is hoping to have a full appreciation of the quality of local football. He said he also intended to watch the Warriors’ 2022 World Cup opponents, Ghana and South Africa, in action, in their friendly internationals. Last night, Ghana were away in Morocco. The Black Stars host Cote d’Ivoire this Saturday. South Africa will take on Uganda tomorrow. “Of course, we are missing out, but there is nothing much we can do and the players are already on a break,’’ said Loga. “I will try to use the COSAFA tournament, to assess some of those players I haven’t had a chance, to watch. “Obviously, I am not talking about players like Knowledge Musona and Marvelous Nakamba, but will try to use some new faces, and local players, at COSAFA.” The coach is also catching up with his players, who ply their trade in foreign leagues, who are back home for their off-season break. “Today (yesterday) I was with Tino Kadewere. Mashall (Munetsi) and Musona called the manager and asked him to arrange the meeting,’’ said Loga. “I will meet Marvelous next week, in Bulawayo, when I go there. “He is in Nyanga right now (for holiday). “Our players are well cultured and disciplined. They came to greet me and we talked about their seasons.”