The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo-Senior Arts Reporter Former top model and socialite Hillary Makaya has ventured into beauty care products where she is set to conclude a deal with a manufacturer to sell her merchandise. Makaya, who made headlines last week when Zimdancehall musician Enzo Ishall dropped a single dedicated to her which ignited debate on social media led by controversial preacher Passion Java who dismissed the song as boring, said her new range of beauty products will be unveiled next month. “I don’t want to talk much about that issue (Enzo Ishall’s single), for now it is about my cosmetic range. I have received a lot of messages and what I can say is I don’t have any bad blood with Enzo Ishall or Prophet Passion. Besides, what they were doing is also good for my brand.” Makaya is also a video vixen as she has appeared on several musical videos, including advertorial promotions. She said the launch of her beauty products line will be a red carpet show under a particular theme for the invited. “It will be a red carpet event, we hope by then we would be allowed to host functions even though with limited numbers. I am yet to announce the date, theme and venue of the launch. I also have surprise guests from different countries.” Makaya, who last made a cameo role on Takura’s song “Can’t Get Over You”, said the skin care range was overdue, although at first she was a bit hesitant to start it. “Growing up, it was my dream to have beauty products under my name. I remember at one point my sister would rename the local products, replacing ours as we were playing house. “I started planning about this a year ago and when Covid-19 happened, it affected me a lot as I wanted to launch it mid-August. Again, one of my friends who I was working with died in a horrific accident and it also affected me.” Makaya, who has been in the country for the past months preparing for the launch, said the skin care range will be named ‘MKY’ and will be in local and international stores. “Among the range will include moisturiser, body scrubs and lotion, exfoliators, serums, and powders. I named the range ‘MKY’, it is my surname in short cut, hence I chose those abbreviations so that they are easy and simple to recognise. “I have also established links in Dubai, United Kingdom, United States, South Africa, Nigeria and Ghana among other countries where the merchandise will be sold.” Makaya said so far the skin care range products have been completed and tested for use. “I have engaged a professional skin care specialist and a dermatologist who told me the results were good and ready for use for different types of skins,” Makaya said. Asked if beauty was an act of resilience, Makaya said: “Beauty to me is an act of spirituality. Care and adornment of oneself is an affirmation of our divinity and the divinity of existence.” Makaya was inspired by young girls who are proud of their identity. “The product will be more natural as we are promoting our identity. Nothing too fancy. I can say I am inspired by the diversity of the community. We are trying to celebrate ourselves as young women. I always feel the most free when I am creating looks without following any rules. “The beauty industry has norms, but I want to encourage people to challenge those standards and allow things to be perfect and fun.” In the past, some international stars have launched their beauty products such as Selena Gomez (RareBeauty), Rihaana (Fenty), Jennifer Lopez (JLO) and Pharrell put out skin-careline called Humanrace.