The Herald SINGAPORE. — The Global Esports Federation held their fourth board meeting, last week, in which they marked 18 months of expansive growth. The GEF reaffirmed their commitment to advance the universal values of equality, diversity, inclusion, fair play, and innovation, and will continue to elevate and expand opportunities in esports, worldwide. “Together with our 93 Member Federations, we have accomplished so much,’’ said GEF president, Chris Chan, in a statement released by the organisation. “We look to the future with real optimism, as we continue to expand and develop tangible initiatives, in service to the esports community. “We have announced three Global Esports Games, the first slated for December this year. “We continue to welcome even more partners, and Member Federations, into the Global Esports Federation family, promoting a safe, inclusive and healthy esports ecosystem, for all.” Paul J. Foster, the GEF chief executive, recounted 18 months of progress, and outlined the pathway for continued growth, at the same meeting. “The Global Esports Federation was established to enhance the credibility, legitimacy and prestige for esports,’’ said Foster. “We convene the world’s communities in esports, active esports, digital technologies, standards, education, and wellness. “Through our various Global Social Impact Initiatives (GSII), we unlock the boundless opportunities for every single person, everywhere, to be part of the dynamic future of esports in a #worldconnected.” The Zimbabwean duo of veteran sports administrator, Tommy Sithole, and Tyrone Seward are part of the GEF leadership. Sithole, who is the Zimpapers board chairman, is the GEF vice president and was also appointed chairperson of the governance and ethics commission. Seward, the husband of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation Minister, Kirsty Coventry, is the deputy to Chester King, leading the education, culture and wellness commission. In accordance, with the GEF constitution, the board meeting commenced with electing the chair of the Singapore 2021 Global Esports Games Organising Committee, Ng Shin Ein, who is Singapore’s Non-Resident Ambassador to the Republic of Hungary, as a GEF board member. With the appointment of Ng Shin Ein, the representation of women in the GEF rises to 35 percent, up from 11percent, just 18 months ago. The GEF continue to lead in promoting equality, diversity and inclusion in esports globally, through the hosting of the first #worldconnected women Global Forum last month, led by GEF vice president and Olympian, Charmaine Crooks. “The board is made up of diverse and distinguished leaders, and it’s my privilege to be a part of this team. “The Singapore 2021 Global Esports Games will be a pioneering endeavour. With the support of the Global Esports Federation and my colleagues in the organising committee, I look forward to delivering a ground-breaking event come December,” said Ng Shin Ein. The inaugural GEG will showcase the energy of esports, through competitions and a dynamic programme of activities, including GEFestival – a platform to celebrate the inclusive esports culture encompassing music, art, technology, fashion, food, the creative and passion economies and industries. Meanwhile, the first annual #worldconnected Awards will recognise various accomplishments, within the world’s esports community. The GEF Board approved the continued expansion of the Global Events Portfolio. The GEF will call for expressions of interest to host the next collective of the Global Esports Games. In a move to further engage directly with the fans and esports community worldwide, the GEF recently opened their first online lifestyle store, in collaboration with LA-based Meta Threads. The store features lifestyle gaming and esports apparel and accessories designed for the #worldconnected community. — GEF/Sports Reporter.