The Herald Tadious Manyepo in ZVISHAVANE FC Platinum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1) 1 Ngezi Platinum Stars…………….(0) 2 SUPER SUB, unlikely hero, game-changer, whatever you call him, it will all aptly describe Bruno Mtigo. The man who, with just two swings of his right foot danced his way into the headlines yesterday. Football, what a beautiful game, the one with the power to thrust such unheralded players like Mtigo, from relative obscurity, to the back page, of this 130-year-old newspaper. He is not new in the domestic Premiership, he was battling in its trenches three years ago, in the colours of Chapungu. Neither is he a new recruit, for coach Rodwell Dhlakama, they were together at the Gweru-based airmen. He is not new, either, to scoring goals, at the highest level of league football in this country. After all, he scored some goals for Chapungu United, during his stint at the airmen. What is new is that Mtigo is now hogging the spotlight, and has forced his way into the headlines, after a starring role for Ngezi Platinum Stars, here yesterday. And, that he was not part of this show, until the final six minutes of regulation time, makes his achievement, even better. In total, he played 11 minutes, when one takes into account the five minutes which referee Thabani Bamala, added for the stoppages. His two beautiful goals in a Chibuku Super Cup which has delivered more than its fair share of such amazing highlights, turned this match on its head, and powered Ngezi to an improbable victory. Silas Songani had given FC Platinum the lead, in the first half, cooly turning the ball home, after the Ngezi defence, including ‘keeper Nelson Chadya, had made a mess of what should have been a clearance. But, in the first, it was Mtigo, who was the hero, with his double strike. The first was good, hit with perfection to just fade away, at the last moment, to find its target. The second, and winner, was better, he run into space to find the freedom to try his luck, the decision to take the shot, from distance, and the execution, to beat a ‘keeper of Petros Mhari’s calibre. Mtigo said he spent the better part of yesterday’s afternoon battling with a strange feeling. He sat on the bench, for the bigger chunk of this match, before being introduced, with just six minutes left, of the regulation time. Then, with his only two shots on target, he powered his way into the headlines. Ngezi had been struggling, to get the right formula, to find an equaliser, against their rivals, who had been reduced to 10 men, after Gift Bello was sent off. The veteran defender finally forced Bamala to act, after he had received prior warning, for remonstrating against the referee. Just two minutes after his introduction, Mtigo beat Mhari, with a fine strike, to tie the match. Then, three minutes later, he fired home the killer goal. “I was feeling it all day,” said Mtigo. “I couldn’t really tell what it was but I was feeling something great would happen. “When the coach signalled me to ready myself, I knew I was going to score. “I was confident and I just told myself that I would play my normal game, while doing the extra, so that I would help my teammates. “I was on fresh legs and that helped us a lot, I would like to thank coach Dhlakama (Rodwell) for throwing me into the fray. “Everyone worked for this and I am glad that we ended up with the three points in the bag.” Mtigo is the third Ngezi player to score a brace, in as many matches, after Denver Mukamba, who was pulled out in the first half yesterday because of an injury, hit two, in the opening 3-1 victory, over Triangle. Valentine Kadonzvo also grabbed a brace, last weekend, in Ngezi’s 3-0 win, over Whawha. While it was all celebrations for Ngezi, who took their tally to nine points, three clear of their second-placed rivals, FC Platinum coach, Norman Mapeza, was left fuming. Mapeza felt the officiating was poor, particularly the expulsion of Bello, and he wasn’t sure why the former Dynamos man was dismissed. “If someone (referee) can come and do this, I mean, it makes football lose its value,” said Mapeza. “When these things (questionable officiating) start to happen now, when we feel this is part of the preparations for the new season, I don’t know where we are heading to. “The whole second half, I’m not someone who wants to complain but this is not on, this is not on, it’s just ridiculous.’’ This is the third time Mapeza has lost to a team, coached by Dhlakama, in a Chibuku Super Cup game, at Mandava. Teams FC Platinum: P. Mhari, R. Kutsanzira, G. Bello, K. Madzongwe, K. Mangiza, B. Banda, I. Mucheneka (R. Pavari 46th min), S. Songani (N. Chinyerere 89th min), P. Mutimbanyoka, D. Teguru (E. Tendayi 79th min) R. Chinyengetere Ngezi Platinum Stars: N. Chadya, K. Chigwida, D. Mukamba (N. Makumbe 28th min) P. Moyo, G. Takwara, Q. Amini, W. Taderera (T. Matindife 84th min) A. Chivandire (B. Mtigo 84th min), M. Mukumba, K. Murera, V. Kadonzvo (M. Makuwe 57th min)