The Herald PARIS. — Kylian Mbappe will not leave Paris Saint-Germain under any circumstances, the French giants chief has insisted, amid uncertainty surrounding the superstar’s future. The 22-year-old striker has one year remaining on his current deal with the Parisians, and is yet to reach an agreement over extended terms after Neymar committed his future to Mauricio Pochettino’s side. Real Madrid are long-term admirers of the Frenchman and have been linked with a swoop for Mbappe, although Los Blancos’ ability to provide the funds required to prise the striker from PSG remains uncertain. And PSG president Nasser Al-Khelaifi is adamant that the club will not sell Mbappe, nor will he leave Paris for free, in a defiant response to speculation regarding their star man. “I’ll be clear, Kylian is going to stay with PSG. We’re never going to sell him and he’ll never leave for free,” Al-Khelaifi told L’Equipe. “I never give details to the media about ongoing negotiations. All I can say it that it’s progressing well. I hope we’ll find common ground. “It’s Paris, it’s his country. He has a mission, not just to be a football player, but to promote Ligue 1, his country and his capital. “He is a fantastic boy, as a person and as an athlete. He’ll win the Ballon d’Or in years to come, I’m 100% sure. “He has everything he needs to extend here. Where can he go? Which club in terms of ambition and project can compete with PSG today?” Al-Khelaifi also quashed rumours of Mbappe having doubts about PSG’s direction following reports that the Frenchman was stalling over contract talks after the French giant’s lost their grip on Ligue 1 to Lille. “If he expects guarantees on the quality of the team? If he says that, he wants to win and that’s not a bad thing,’ the club president added. “We are ambitious too. But if he wants to decide who to recruit or not, that is not possible. I repeat, he’s a great boy, I’m sure he says that because he wants a better team to win the Champions League.” — Mailonline.