The Herald Grace Chingoma-Senior Sports Reporter OVIDY KARURU is disappointed that, after his best seasons in the South African Premiership, he failed to help Black Leopards survive relegation. The Warriors midfielder had a fine season with Lidoda Duvha. But, the former Kaizer Chiefs, Amazulu and Stellenbosch midfielder, who had a one-year contract, is club-hunting, again. “Obviously, it’s not a good feeling to be relegated, especially with the efforts we were putting in,’’ he told The Herald. “I am sure it’s my best season in the South African league, with no injury setbacks, but there is nothing we can do about it. ‘’It was God’s Will and we can’t challenge God about, it we just have to dust ourselves, and keep our heads up, and move forward.” Karuru, who has played for four South African Premiership clubs since he returned from France in 2014, says he is going to take his time, to secure a long-term contract. “There are options and the phone is ringing left, right and centre but I am not really in a rush,’’ he said. ‘’It’s time to make good decisions, to find a place where I will stay for a long time, not short-term contracts because people end up thinking I am the problem, when I am not. ‘’When you go to a team, it depends with what they offer, so, that’s how we negotiate a short-term contract so that, when they see the performance, they can better the deal and sign you for a long term. ‘’But, sometimes, things don’t happen as planned and, as a player, I am the one who ends up moving. ‘’And, some people out there end up thinking Ovidy has a problem so, for now, I will take my time to see where I should go and settle.” Karuru has divided opinion, with his continued selection in the Warriors, were he is the vice-captain. Some critics feel the calls are not justified. However, a number of top coaches feel the midfielder remains a special talent, with all the attributes, of a very top footballer. Former Warriors coach, Joey Antipas, who took him to Amazulu three seasons ago, once told The Herald Karuru was one of the best midfielders, in the country. “I would say he is one of the top midfielders to come out of Zimbabwe,’’ he said. “I used him as a second striker at Amazulu. He is a hard worker, he always wants to get involved in play, very creative, and can score goals, as well. ‘’He is the type of a player who can eliminate opponents, not afraid to take them on. “Ovidy is a player with all the attributes of a very top footballer. When he was lost and found, after his contract was terminated by Kaizer Chiefs, I managed to get hold of him and he responded well by coming to play for AmaZulu.’’ Former Warriors coach, Norman Mapeza, has also previously spoken highly about the former Gunners man. “I started working with him in 2007, when he was still in Masvingo, and I was presiding over a national team game. ‘’He is one of the most disciplined players I have worked with, a hard worker. “In football, players possess different attributes. “I think, for him, it’s all about his technical ability. He is someone who is very good, if we combine this, with his physical and tactical attributes, it makes him a very good player and, as coaches, we look at these attributes in a player.” Mapeza says he has always believed in the midfielder. “Sometimes, as coaches, we differ in what we want in players,’’ he said. ‘’So, you find a player can excel under a certain coach and others struggle under a certain coach, or under a certain environment.” Chidzambwa also hailed the player he first game an international stage, to shine on, at the 2009 CHAN finals, in Cote d’Ivoire. Karuru made an impact and was signed by a French club where, one of his teammates, became Chelsea star, N’Golo Kante. “He is a very good attacking midfielder, especially playing behind one striker, he is very dangerous. ‘’He gets into good scoring positions,” said Chidzambwa.