The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter PACE bowler, Kyle Jarvis, who announced his retirement from all forms of cricket yesterday, feels he has done his part for his country. The 32-year-old called time on his cricket career, after struggling with injuries and illness, over the past year-and-a-half. He told journalists, during a virtual conference, he will now invest his time, and resources, on his personal business. Jarvis becomes the latest high-profile player to walk away from the game in recent months. Former captain, Elton Chigumbura, called time on his international cricket, seven months ago. Jarvis had not played the game, since he sustained a lower back injury, during Zimbabwe’s first Test match against Sri Lanka at Harare Sports Club, in January 2020. He believes he has played his part and is confident in the quality of the new generation of players, who will take over. “Obviously, every game that has been played, I follow closely,’’ he said. “It’s nice to see (Richard) Ngarava coming through. “I think there is a bright future with (Wesley) Madhevere, Milton Shumba and Dion Myers. “It’s really good that we see some good players coming up, the future is bright. “Those guys have had some senior players to learn from in the last few years.” He is leaving the game without any regrets, after spending 12 years, as a professional cricketer. Jarvis has been a key member of the Zimbabwe cricket team for the past decade. He featured in 13 Tests, 49 ODIs and 22 T20 Internationals for his country and picked up a combined 132 wickets. Apparently, the fast bowler had struggles, with a lower back injury he suffered last year, during a Test match against Sri Lanka. “Obviously I hurt my back in a Test match against Sri Lanka at the beginning of 2020,’’ he said. “I was fortunate I managed to come back, and became fit again. “But, just as I thought I was beginning to get back into it, unfortunately, I got that sickness (Covid-19), which set me back even further. “It was a very difficult decision, having to retire, and it’s something that took me a long time to come to grips with. “Nobody wants to stop doing the thing they love.” The son of former Zimbabwe international, Malcolm Jarvis, the seamer is looking to get involved in the game, in another capacity, in the near future. “I think, after the uncertainty of coming back the first time from the injury, and that illness, after those two, I just realised I needed to start looking for something for life after cricket,’’ he said. “Of course, we all have families and we need to be able to provide. “I knew cricket wasn’t going to last forever and I really put my head down and tried to come up with a plan for life after cricket. “I had my mind set on trying to set up something else on the side. “I have got a vehicle importing, and used car business here in Zimbabwe, and also I have got some partners, with whom I am starting a restaurant. “Obviously, it’s a bit of a crazy time to be doing a restaurant business, in these Covid-19 times, but we have got a bit of some plan and, hopefully, it comes out quite nicely.’’ He, however, hopes to continue assisting the growth, and development of the domestic game, behind the scenes. Jarvis was fast-tracked into international cricket, before he had even played first class cricket, after he had impressed at the 2008 edition of the ICC Under-19 Men’s World Cup. He made his one-day international debut for Zimbabwe, against Kenya, on October 12, 2009. He went on to make his Test bow against Bangladesh on August 4, 2011, before he played his first ever Twenty20 International match, against Pakistan, on September 16, in the same year. In August 2013, Jarvis quit international cricket to pursue a county contract with Lancashire in England. After a successful stint in the county game, in September 2017, he returned to Zimbabwe to play international cricket again. Jarvis retires having taken 132 wickets in the 84 international matches that he featured in during his career. That haul includes 46 wickets in his 13 Tests, 58 wickets in 49 ODIs and 28 wickets in 22 T20Is. He also played 84 first-class matches, taking a total of 320 wickets. “Every day, wearing the Zimbabwe badge is a highlight and I was very fortunate to be able to represent my country over a 10-year career. “I will miss walking out onto the field in an international with a close group of friends. “A special thank you to my friends, family, Zimbabwe Cricket and Lancashire County Cricket Club, for all the support, over the years,” said Jarvis.