The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
THE Sports and Recreation Commission have given greenlight to 24 sport codes classified as ‘low risk’ to resume activities. The Commission said in a statement this afternoon that the sports associations that have been allowed to operate are expected to strictly adhere to the Covid-19 containment measures. This comes after Government had announced a blanket ban on all sports activities and mass gatherings following the escalation of Covid-19 cases in the country. “Pursuant to the recently Gazetted Statutory Instrument 170 of 2021, the following sport codes, classified as ‘low risk’ are hereby authorized to resume their activities in accordance with their previously approved Covid-19 protocols encompassing national World Health Organisation guidelines: “Archery, angling, cricket, equestrian, polo, shooting, woodball, table tennis, aquatics, bass, cycling, rowing, polocrosse, tennis, triathlon, horse racing, badminton, athletics, chess, draughts, golf, motor sport, lawn bowls and teqball. “SRC is advising the relevant National Sport Associations of this development by separate and direct email requiring that they acknowledge and accept the said correspondence and the health protocols and other conditions reiterated therein prior to any such resumption. “If the above activities are carried out at a sports club or other similar facility, bars and changing rooms are to remain closed and any available restaurants authorized to operate are to only accept take-away orders,” said the Commission in a statement. All sporting activities were put on hold at the weekend after Government announced a new raft of measures to help in containing the Covid-19 cases, which are on the rise again, in the country. However, Sports Commission have been reviewing the impact of the ban on the sports industry and working on mitigatory measures.
They have asked associations to refer to the previous conditions for safe resumption. Violations of the health protocols and other stated conditions could result in summary suspension of the sport codes and prosecution of the offending individuals or responsible officials.
Gyms and other high contact sports like football, boxing, rugby and netball remain suspended. “For the avoidance of doubt, Gyms shall remain closed. “All competitions must however still be applied for separately through the SRC, which will submit its recommendations to the Minister for approval.” The following Sports Codes have been given the greenlight to start:
archery, angling, cricket, equestrian, polo, shooting, woodball, table tennis, aquatics, bass, cycling, rowing, polocrosse, tennis, triathlon, horse racing, dadminton, athletics, chess, draughts, golf, motor sport, lawn bowls and teqball.