The Herald Victor Maphosa-Herald Reporter Nine artisanal miners at Pick Stone Mine in Chegutu recently attacked and seriously injured a 19-year-old man working on the same site for yet to be established reasons. Takemore Ncube was rushed to Chegutu Hospital after the brutal and premeditated attack, where he later succumbed to the injuries. Nine artisanal miners armed with logs and machetes are said to have attacked him at a football ground where he escaped and rushed home, but they followed him and assaulted again. Takemore’s father, Mr Gift Ncube, told The Herald yesterday that he was yet to ascertain the reason for his son’s murder. “It was last Sunday when my son called me saying there were some people who had attacked and assaulted him. He told me that he had escaped and was hiding in the bush. He was with his friend and using his mobile number,” said Mr Ncube. “He told me he was seriously injured especially in the face but able to walk. I told him to try to hike to Chegutu and report the matter to the police. He went to our plot where a sister to my wife stays where he was supposed to get transport money. “While at the plot, my son called me again informing me that the gang had arrived at the plot. “I advised him to run and he had to seek refuge next door. At that time, I was in Chegutu town now looking for transport to rush to the mine.” Mr Ncube said the people who committed the crime were close to him and never expected such behaviour from them. “When he told me that he was assaulted, he said one Wonder Musengi is the one who was at the forefront. “I grew up with Musengi and we were very close. Our families are close. Up to now I am still in shock. “The same people whom I considered to be family treated me like this. Takemore was my first born. I never expected this from this family. I am so hurt but I leave everything in God’s hands,” he said. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi confirmed the incident. “A suspect has been arrested over the issue,” he said.