The Herald PARIS. — Novak Djokovic avoided a shock fourth-round exit at the French Open after fighting back from two sets down against teenager Lorenzo Musetti. The world number one was outplayed early on before rallying, leading 6-7 (7-9) 6-7 (2-7) 6-1 6-0 4-0 when the 19-year-old Italian retired injured. World number 76 Musetti, playing in his first Grand Slam main draw, was given a standing ovation as he left the court. Rafael Nadal also made the last eight, beating Jannik Sinner 7-5 6-3 6-0. The 13-time French Open champion recovered from an opening-set wobble in which he twice dropped serve to trail 5-3 to comfortably see off the Italian 18th seed and extend his winning run in Paris to 35 sets. Djokovic’s victory, meanwhile, marked the fifth occasion he has overturned a two-set deficit to win at a Slam. But he was clearly frustrated for a lengthy portion of the afternoon by Musetti, who was able to match him shot-for-shot in the opening stages. The teenager began to struggle with stomach cramps and back pain and, after winning just four points in the fourth set, took a medical time-out before retiring after losing 13 successive games. “I like to play young guys in the best-of-five because even at two sets down, I feel I still have my chances,” Djokovic said. “I have won most of my five-setters and that experience helps. It’s unfortunate for him to have to retire but I could see he was struggling physically.” Musetti comes close to shock of tournament. From the very first point, when he nailed a backhand winner down the line, Musetti appeared to believe he belonged in such esteemed company and affirmed the opinion of many that he is a star of the future. Djokovic had not dropped a set in his opening three matches at Roland Garros, his serve broken just once all week, but Musetti ended that streak in a captivating first set. Breaking back immediately after being broken to love, Musetti entertained the crowd with some inventive shots, including a stunning no-look backhand volley winner, to take it to a tie-break. There he came from 4-1 down to earn three set points and while some Djokovic brilliance saved the first two, a stunning Musetti forehand converted the third. — BBC Sport.