The Herald LONDON. — England struck twice late on to end a 55-year wait for a knock-out tie victory over Germany amid scenes of huge tension and elation at Wembley to reach the Euro 2020 quarter-finals. Gareth Southgate’s side battled hard to earn the statement victory that has so often eluded England, and it was their talisman of this tournament, Raheem Sterling, who made the decisive breakthrough, in the 2-0 win. Sterling, who scored the winners against Croatia and the Czech Republic in the group stage, steered in Luke Shaw’s cross after 75 minutes, to send England’s fans, with more than 40,000 inside Wembley, into wild celebrations. The win was secured with another moment of significance four minutes from time when captain Harry Kane, who had once again struggled to influence the game, headed in from substitute Jack Grealish’s perfect delivery for his first goal of Euro 2020. England were again thankful for the brilliance of Everton goalkeeper Jordan Pickford, who has yet to concede a goal in the tournament, and saved crucially from Timo Werner and Kai Havertz in each half, while Thomas Muller missed a glorious chance to equalise before Kane struck. Southgate’s team selection raised eyebrows when he decided to leave the creative talents of Grealish and Phil Foden on the bench and showed huge faith in Arsenal teenager Bukayo Saka by starting him after his fine performance against the Czechs. Saka was excellent, the early spark when England struggled, while Grealish added the crucial X factor when he came off the bench to finally help break Germany down. The scenes at the final whistle demonstrated just how important this win is for Southgate and England, digging deep and surviving periods of struggle to overcome old rivals who have so often got the better of them. And this may just rank as the biggest and most important victory of Southgate’s time in charge. Kane again looked a shadow of his world-class self as he laboured to have any meaningful involvement as nerves grew around Wembley, failing to pounce on a scramble in first-half injury time and often cutting a forlorn figure as he tried in vain to make his mark. At one stage it looked like he may have to come off injured but he recovered and his contribution in the last 15 minutes may just be the turning point for a striker so trusted by his manager. Kane played a part in the opening goal as he linked up with Grealish and Shaw for Sterling to finish the job — but the big moment came with the goal that settled this game. Grealish, so confident when he came on, sent in the perfect cross to find Kane in the six-yard area to head home. The mixture of joy and relief in his expression was obvious, as was the delight of his team-mates. — BBC Sport.