The Herald LONDON. — English Premier League champions Manchester City get their 2021/22 title defence under way at Tottenham Hotspur when the new season kicks-off on the weekend of August 14. It’s a tricky opener to Pep Guardiola’s quest for a fourth league title in five years, with Spurs looking to bounce back from an underwhelming 2020/21 season. Newly-promoted Norwich City welcome Liverpool to Carrow Road, play-off winners Brentford host Arsenal, Champions League holders Chelsea have a London derby with Crystal Palace at Stamford Bridge, and Manchester United take on rivals Leeds United at Old Trafford in what looks set to be a fascinating curtain-raising round of fixtures. The fast start to the season continues with Arsenal vs Chelsea the following weekend, August 21, before Arsenal travel to Manchester City and Chelsea face Liverpool at Anfield on August 28. Man City visit local rivals Manchester United on November 6, but the return match at the Etihad marks the start of a potentially key run of games for Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s men. Title hopefuls United face Man City away on March 5, and then play Tottenham at home on March 12, Liverpool away on March 19, Leicester at home on April 2 and Everton away on April 9. Liverpool go to Old Trafford on October 23, while the north London derby is scheduled for September 25 at Arsenal’s Emirates Stadium and January 15 at Tottenham. The Merseyside derbies are November 30 at Goodison Park and April 23 at Anfield. United and Chelsea meet at Old Trafford on the penultimate weekend before the season’s final round of games takes place on May 22. Premier League clubs were able to host fans at reduced capacity when Covid-19 restrictions eased late in the 2020-21 campaign. It is not yet known how many fans will be able to attend the opening fixtures of the new season but the Premier League said it was “committed to the ambition of having full stadiums, including away supporters” from the start of the season. The men’s and women’s Wimbledon finals will become the first UK outdoor sporting events to host capacity crowds in July, while Wembley will also be able to host matches at 50% capacity – around 45 000 – for the knockout stages of Euro 2020. Here’s the first round of fixtures for the 2021/22 Premier League season, which kicks off on August 14: Brentford vs Arsenal Burnley vs Brighton Chelsea vs Crystal Palace Everton vs Southampton Leicester City vs Wolverhampton Manchester United vs Leeds United Newcastle United vs West Ham United Norwich City vs Liverpool Tottenham Hotspur vs Manchester City Watford vs Aston Villa The Boxing Day games (The clashes lined up for December 26): Aston Villa vs Chelsea Brighton vs Brentford Burnley vs Everton Liverpool vs Leeds United Manchester City vs Leicester City Newcastle United vs Manchester United Norwich City vs Arsenal Tottenham Hotspur vs Crystal Palace West Ham United vs Southampton Wolverhampton vs Watford The Final day games (Which of these games will be pivotal on May 22, 2022?) Arsenal vs Everton Brentford vs Leeds United Brighton vs West Ham United Burnley vs Newcastle United Chelsea vs Watford Crystal Palace vs Manchester United Leicester City vs Southampton Liverpool vs Wolverhampton Manchester City vs Aston Villa Norwich City vs Tottenham Hotspur.  — Sky Sports.