The Herald Robson Sharuko–Senior Sports Editor IT’S a vintage artistic image – the collapsing walls, the roof carving in and the house now beginning to crash to the ground. It was drawn by legendary Zimpapers cartoonist, Jay Gee, just five years into Independence, amid the euphoria of the country’s return to international football. While many were still gripped by a tsunami of joy, and were being swept away by a giant wave of great expectations, Jay Gee had already seen some cracks, which he felt would eventually destroy the dream. The men and women tasked with leading domestic football had, in the eyes of the cartoonist, already started displaying signs of being the Achilles Heel, which would cripple the game’s quest for greatness. That the signals were already evident, just five years into the game’s return into the international fold, should be worrying. And, in a way, it turned the cartoonist into such a visionary giant. Someone like a prophet, who had already seen trouble where many, blinded by the excitement, triggered by the return from the wilderness. Revealing in a paradise, in which they saw a future in which their beloved Warriors would be regulars at the AFCON finals. And, like their neighbours Bafana Bafana and Chipolopolo, would also probably win the Nations Cup. And, even secure a dream appearance, at the World Cup finals. After all, they had Bruce Grobbelaar, already the first-choice goalkeeper at Liverpool, then the best club, in world football, by a country mile. They had Sunday Chidzambwa, a tough centreback, and a very dependable leader. And, they had the immortal Stanley Ndunduma, as talented a winger, as any in African football, back then. They also had Shackman Tauro, so prolific a forward they even nicknamed him “Mr Goals.” And, they also had a number of emerging stars, providing the guarantee of a long haul of both competitiveness, and success. Today, Misheck Chidzambwa, who captained the Warriors when they touched regional silverware, for the first time, in the CECAFA Cup in 1985, will be laid to rest at his rural home village in Mhondoro. Just like his former Warriors teammate Tauro, probably his greatest adversary on the domestic front with personal battles which will live in the memory, Scania now belongs among angels. Yet, he provides another powerful symbol of a chapter of a book, in which his Warriors somehow flattered to deceive. And, a way, they never fulfilled the potential, which they had in abundance. Questions have, inevitably, been asked as to why Scania’s generation never reached an AFCON finals? Something which, in a way, should have been guaranteed, considering their collective talents, in the first decade of our independence. Most of this discussion has centred on the small number of nations, just six, which had to qualify, to join the holders, and the hosts, in the eight-team tournament. Admittedly, the path to the Promised Land was a congested field. There was little room for error while gamesmanship, by home teams, was part of the template for success. But, a tournament where Malawi could qualify, in 1984, should have been one, where those Warriors, should also have been part of. After all, the Zambians also went there, in 1978, just two years before they came to Rufaro, and were beaten by the Warriors, in the four-team Independence Cup final. Known as the KK XI, Chipolopolo had even reached the final, in 1974, only to be denied glory by the genius of Ndaye Mulamba, in the only final which has been replayed. They called him Volvo, this legendary Congolese forward, his nickname having come from a Swedish car. Ironically, they would also pluck Misheck’s nickname, Scania, from a Swedish truck, in what was a compliment to the defender’s toughness. But, without a helping hand from those tasked with administering the game, even tough and talented men like Scania, were bound to come short. That is the powerful message, from Jay Gee’s vintage ‘85 cartoon. It’s something which had already become evident, just five years into the Warriors return, from isolation. Mick Poole had just been hired as coach, to replace Wieslaw Grabowski, when Jay Gee came up with his vintage piece of art. And, in a way, he captured the chaos of that era which, sadly, would become synonymous with the story of Warriors, in particular, and this game’s administration, in general. The huge turnover of coaches, would become a normal feature, despite all its abnormality, and poor Misheck would become part of the statistics. His name would be added, among those who dared coach the Warriors, coming via the front door, only to be forced to leave through the he back door. All of them have stories to tell, about their fights with those who hired them, about promises which were never fulfilled. And, in Valinhos’ case, the non-payment of his salary, which led to the expulsion of the Warriors from the 2018 World Cup qualifiers, was an aberration. The Warriors wouldn’t have been part of the 2022 World Cup qualifiers, either, had a Good Samaritan not come along, at the last minute. He managed to settle the US$180 000, owed to Tom Saintfiet, who coached the team for just one day. Maybe, that’s the other side of the price of risk, which Jay Gee talked about, in his vintage cartoon, But, for Norman Mapeza, Charles Mhlauri, Sunday Chidzambwa and Callisto Pasuwa, it’s all gloomy. They all have tales of the money, which they were meant to be paid, for their service to the team, which never came. At least, Misheck picked up a silverware, as coach of these Warriors, having also picked one, as captain, during his playing days. But, as his physical presence is taken away today, into the depths of a ground he used to dominate with his huge frame, there will be a sense of regret. About what might have been, for him and his country, had those who lived in the house which Jay Gee portrayed in his classic cartoon, helped him fulfill his dreams. Both, as a captain, and coach, of the Warriors. We will never know but, in a way, that has been the story of our national game.