The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor A NUMBER of Zimbabwean motocross riders, including promising young biker, Victor Nyamupfukudza, will this weekend warm up for the 2021 FIM Africa Motocross of African Nations Championships. They are set to compete in the third round of this year’s Mkushi National Championship series in Mkushi, Zambia. Uganda are poised to host the 2021 FIM Africa Motocross of African Nations Championships, in August. The continental event was postponed last year after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. FIM Africa, the continent’s motosport mother body, recently confirmed Uganda have been given the green light to stage the same competition from August 6 to 8 at Garuga race track in Kampala. The two-day annual event usually attracts more than 200 junior, and senior male and female riders, from seven countries — Botswana, Kenya, Morocco, South Africa, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe. A number of Zimbabwean riders have been given the opportunity to fine-tune themselves in the third round of the Mkushi National Championship series on Saturday. The venue is the coolest motosport park by far, situated in the farming area of Zambia. Nyamupfukudza, who has just graduated to ride in the 65cc Class from the 50cc Class, will be accompanied by his sister Tadiwanashe, a Form One pupil at ZRP High School, who rides in the 85cc Class. Their father, Simbarashe, told The Herald yesterday they have accepted the invitation to compete in Zambia. “We are just waiting for the results of our Covid-19 results, which we are likely to get anytime soon, and if they are okay, we will definitely be going to Zambia to race in Mkushi on Saturday,’’ he said. Meanwhile, in a bid to prepare the officials for the forthcoming FIM Africa Motocross of African Nations Championships, Federation of Motorsport Clubs of Uganda (FMU) recently rolled out a two-day training seminar. Training was targeted at sharpening officials with the general sporting regulations of the sport, thanks to FIM Africa, who partnered with the federation, to make it a success. Chief facilitator was FIM Africa Sporting Director, Tony Rowley from Zimbabwe, who familiarised participating officials with sporting regulations. The two-day workshop was held at Copper Chimnery housed at Uganda’s National Council of Sports headquarters in Kampala. Rowley later met up with Ugandan government officials, including that country’s National Council of Sports general-secretary, Bernard Ogwel, together with other officials.