The Herald Monica Cheru
Creative Hub Editor
Clarence Mwale says there is no excuse for anyone not to get up and prove that their existence is worthwhile. “Get up and do something now. There are no circumstances that give you an excuse not to be doing something,” the man who is walking his talk says. After studying International Relations and Business Administration, Clarence did not find any opening in the field. Instead of whining about lack of employment and opportunities, he simply reinvented himself and charted a new career path. That was in 2002 when he joined Linkfront Farming, managing personnel, conducting company marketing, public relations, and quality control. He was also responsible for assuring adherence to local retail standards. In 2004 he joined Selby Enterprises (PVT) Ltd, Zimbabwe as a manager in charge of in charge of company adherence to strict export, packhouse and out-grower standards. He worked with around 100 commercial farmers and about 500 small scale initiatives. In 2008 he started Fair-Mark. “It was not easy. I had no capital and it was nee territory. One of my first clients was Shaun Philps who farms out in Mvurwi at the Forrester Farms. We have worked together since and we have moved beyond business acquaintance. Then there were referrals by word of mouth and that was it.” Realising that he needed more than just passion, Clarence invested in gaining knowledge in the field. He now holds a multitude of certificates, giving him a unique skills set that is highly in demand. He is the only licensed farm assurer for global accreditation servicing Zimbabwe, South Africa, Kenya, Uganda, Mozambique and Rwanda. Fair-Mark ensures that farmers in those six countries have access to European markets. He works with associates who understand that local terrain and language. Fair-Mark also trains people on the farms to understand the audit systems and certification requirements. 2020 which was a year of forced redundancy for most people was a different story for Clarence and Fair-Mark: “Fortunately Fair-Mark was judged an essential service and with clearance from the government, I was able to travel. We did virtual audits for the farms and then had to do physical visits. So that was pretty hectic.” According to Clarence Covid-19 induced collapse of the Holland market in 2020 affected the 10 or so farms that are still doing flower exports but the loss to Zimbabwe as a country was negligible. “We are no longer a major flower exporter. Though we have a resuscitation, most of the growers are not doing the roses that Zimbabwe was famed for. They are now doing filler plants.” Zimtrade puts Zimbabwe horticultural products exports worth at around US$ 120 and $122 million annually saying there is potential to multiply that by 10. Clarence says that no farm he worked with has been denied certification over sanctions. Fair-Mark is focused on the European market because Zimbabwe traditionally developed its export farming to service that part of the world. “But the Asian market is huge and viable. China is full of possibilities. So there are opportunities. So get up and farm. Do something!” Fair-Mark is setting up a packhouse in Harare which should be operational by mid-2022. This will extend the current staff complement beyond the associates as the organisation will now hire full time staff and casual labour. Clarence is married to Mutsa who runs Strictly Chic, a Zimbabwean online clothing shop. The couple has two young sons, Taylor and Tristan. So how does Clarence juggle his job and the demands of being a husband and father. “The good thing is that I do not work an eight to five job. So while I travel a lot, it also means that I can take a day off to do ice-cream, the jumps, whatever. And the nature of my job means that I can also travel with my family. “Because I have relationships with the farmers I work with, some of them don’t mind if I bring the family along on the job. So while I am working the kids will be running free. Others even invite the family along and offer activities like horse riding. So I think I have a good balance of job and family.” Clarence also takes Saturdays off to observe the Sabbath as the family are practicing Seventh Day Adventists.