The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor ZIMBABWE’S Stanley Mutoya, who is currently serving as the chief executive of the African Union Sports Council Region 5 based in Gaborone, Botswana, has been appointed chairperson of the Accra 2023 African Games Technical Committee. Mutoya, who has vast experience in organising multi-sport regional games and insatiable passion for Pan-Africanismm in sport, was appointed by the African Union in line with Article 18 of the African Union Sports Council Statutes. According to the AUSC Statutes, the African Games Technical Committee shall be composed of the AUSC Executive Secretary, Association of National Olympic Committees of Africa and Association of African Sports Confederations representatives, a representative of the African Union Commission department responsible for sport, one representative of each of the five regions of the African Union at expert level and seven experts recommended by the AUSC Executive Secretary and appointed by the AU Sports Advisory Board. The Technical Committee for the African Games elects among its members a chairperson who shall be a representative of one of the five AU Sports Development Regions. Mutoya was therefore duly elected to be the chairperson and will be ably assisted by Selmi Sid Ahmed of Algeria who serves as the vice-chairperson and Kadidiatou Kanoute Tounkara of Mali who serves as the rapporteur. Mitchel Tchoya (Cameroon), Penalva Cesar (Mozambique) and George Magwende (Zambia) make up the other members of the committee. The AU is currently in the process of identifying and appointing the remaining members of the Technical Committee in line with the Statutes of the AUSC. Speaking from Accra, Ghana, where the Technical Committee had been on a mission from June 5 to 11, Mutoya expressed gratitude to the AU and members of the Technical Committee for entrusting him with the leadership of this very significant organ on behalf of the 55 African Member States. “As a son of the soil, and as a Zimbabwean, I am humbled by this appointment which is a litmus test for my leadership abilities in the process of delivering the African Games — the most significant event for Africa,” Mutoya said. “I am both delighted and honoured to have the distinguished privilege on behalf of the two billion people of Africa, to be charged with the responsibility of ensuring that Africa stands tall to showcase her rich sporting and cultural heritage in Ghana come 2023”. The Technical Committee for the African Games (TCAG) is the organ of the African Union Sports Council whose functions span a wide range of areas meant to ensure successful delivery including viability of the African Games. It is the responsibility of this committee to propose objective criteria for the evaluation of bidding files pertaining to the organisation of the African Games including recommending guidelines for bidding and hosting of the African Games. The committee is also responsible for updating the Games technical regulations and ensure they are consistent with the General Regulations of the Games. It is the responsibility of the TCAG to approve required technical, administrative and operational rules, policies and structures, plans, manuals and programmes as well as provide technical advice on their execution, while ensuring that the Games are organised and hosted in accordance with the African Games protocols. A lot will be expected from Mutoya’s leadership, himself not new to the organisation and hosting of the African Games, having served as a member of the TCAG for the 2015 Congo Brazzaville Games.