The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo-Youth Interactive Writer There is a new kid on the block and her mission is to disrupt the music scene with her authentic, fresh sound. The 19-year-old Chiedza Muchena last Tuesday put up a scintillating performance after breaking new ground on her debut show on the international scene, as she took part at the annual virtual fundraising gala concert hosted by the National Jazz Museum in Harlem (NJZMH), United States. The concert, which was part of the celebrations of the rich history and culture of jazz in Harlem, ran under the theme, “The Roots and Routes of Jazz,” and was hosted by celebrity band leaders Christian McBride and Oscar – Golden Globe Winner, Jon Batiste, with special performances by AMP Big Band from the. Philippines. Chiedza was representing Zimbabwe together with 23-year-old Bradley Sibiya. The former Chisipiti Senior School student told The Herald on Saturday Youth Interactive that the experience at the Virtual Harlem Jazz Festival was fun. “It was exciting when we were all composing together as a band and coming up with different structures for the songs,” she said. “There was so much democracy and we all worked well together, to the point of recording videos. I have learnt that it is possible to fuse or mash up our cultural music and jazz.” Chiedza said she chose to sing jazz because she was inspired by her father Mr Willard Muchena. “I have always wanted to do jazz because my father always played it often, especially when we were all together as a family,” she said. “He always said; “Old school is gold, Chiedza, don’t forget that”. “It truly made me love it. I joined the Prince Edward School Jazz Band and they played the best arrangements of jazz. The more I grew as a musician the more I got attached to the genre. “Playing in a jazz band at school and at combined schools concerts, the adrenaline that comes with it too was really awesome, especially when I play saxophone solos. I’m going crazy!” Chiedza, who used to take part with Chez Zandi at Alliance Français, said she was working on an album to be released soon. “I am inspired by jazz chord progressions,” she said. “I enjoy live music. Being able to hear a solid bass, drum, guitar is medicinal for the ear. I am busy in the studio working on my forthcoming album. “Furthermore, I am inspired to write music that can be analysed because when I listen to music I look at the structure, the forms used and any other detail used. I like using my music theory knowledge into practice.” Asked how she was balancing school and music, Chiedza said her strategy was on time management. “Balancing school and music for me has been nothing, but God’s grace,” she said. “I can’t say I have a formula or a cheat code, but a lot of the times I would be surprised to find myself being able to balance the two. “It took a lot of prayer, anticipation, sacrifice, time management and less procrastination. I had to become an implementer because at school I was involved in a lot of clubs and I did one sport and then life outside school was as hectic because I had music lessons.” The bubbly teen said she had no particular role model. “As for my role model, I can’t pick one because I like different things from different artists,” she said. “It’s truly hard to pick one. “If given a chance to collaborate with any local artist, it would be definitely Jah Prayzah. “I think we could really come up with something great seeing that he’s also a mbira player like I am and I enjoy his energy especially when he performs. “What I also like about Jah Prayzah is his diversity and his versatility to also play or sing different genres with different artists.” Chiedza cited the lack of support and exposure as some of the challenges in the music sector affecting the upcoming musicians. “I have face challenges from people who do not take me seriously, especially when it comes to my work,” she said. “It may look easy and simple, but it isn’t, and hours of practice are put into it. “When you do music, you think in a different way and it’s such a special gift which I hope people will end up respecting.” Describing herself, Chiedza used one word “sanguine”. “I would describe myself as a sanguine,” she said. “I’m very bubbly and I like making new friendships or business relationships because I learn a lot from the different interactions I make with people. “I am very talkative and loud and deeply artistic. I can say I am an implementer and a shaper according to Belbin’s theory. “I like getting things done even though I can procrastinate here and there. “I am a hard worker and once I start something I never stop because my eyes are always set on achieving the goal. “I am definitely an honest person and I am one person who will always have your back.”