The Herald Senior Arts Reporter Last Sunday, the world marked Father’s Day, with many people showering praises on their fathers. Not so for Tsitsi, a film character who did not see any value in the parentage of her dad. Starring journalist and actor Conrad Mwanawashe as Samujango, “Tsitsi the Movie” explores the aftermath of inadequate fatherhood. Tsitsi, played by Nyaradzo Matanga, exposes her father, Samujango, for his preference of her brother, Ngoni, over the girl child, which is common in some local communities. In Zimbabwe, a combination of early marriage and pregnancy (48 percent) are issues of concern. According to Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS, 2014), one in four girls aged 15 to 19 are married. Most of these girls are married off as families do not appreciate the value of sending them to school. Some of them are married off to raise money to fend for the family, while boys are supported through school. Samujango represents a section of typical African fathers as he believed that his son Ngoni was supposed to enjoy all the good things in life, including his father’s wealth, while his daughter Tsitsi, was not even in his plans. “Zvinorwadza kukumbira mwana akayenzana nemwanasikana wangu kuti aite sababa kumwana wangu. Ini ndazvitadza. Please walk with her like a father would,” says Samujango addressing his daughter’s friend Frosty in one of the scenes from the movie. While the little African village was turned upside down when everyone learns that Ngoni, the village’s popular son was returning from England with a white woman where he had gone to study, not everyone is excited. His only sister Tsitsi, whose life was sacrificed for the betterment of her only brother. “In playing Samujango, I realised that what we do in our homes can either make or break a society,” said Mwanawashe. “We try to expose the disparities between boys and girls. “The way Tsitsi was brought up made her very bitter and could not see beyond that bitterness. This is not good for society.” The cast includes Victoria Maphosa as Mai Samujango, Frosty Gambe as Frosty and Sinclair Tumpkin. Commenting on the cast, writer and producer of the film, Billy Kabasa said: “Zimbabwe has such an amazing array of talented actors. ‘‘I look forward to the day we will celebrate these talented Zimbabweans. ‘‘Artistes are the most influential ambassadors for Zimbabwe. The day we embrace their influence and reach is the day we will see a greater celebration and publicity of the rich heritage and culture that makes Zimbabwe.”