The Herald KAIZER Chiefs have confirmed the return of Stuart Baxter for a second stint, as head coach, as the successor to Gavin Hunt. Baxter has signed a two-year contract, with an option of a further two years with the Soweto giants, and returns after stints with SuperSport United, Bafana Bafana and Odisha FC in India. He arrives at the club, which is home to Zimbabwe internationals, Khama Billiat and Willard Katsande, although the future of the duo, at the Amakhosi, remains unclear. Baxter has worked with Katsande before and his arrival could be a huge boost for the former Warriors captain, who is hoping to be at the Amakhosi, next season. The Englishman, though, arrives under a cloud after he was sacked, from his last job in India, for making outrageous comments about rape. Yesterday, he was forced to again issue another apology, for the insensitive remarks when he suggested his players would have to rape someone, for them to get a penalty. “I don’t know when we’re going to get a penalty. I think one of my players would have to rape someone or get raped himself if he was going to get a penalty,” said Baxter, who was then in charge of Indian Super League side, Odisha. He was promptly fired in February. “Given the unfortunate nature of my exit from India, and the unfortunate comments, and to be very honest, stupid comments I made, I felt strongly that I needed to make another apology, before recommencing my work in South Africa,” said Baxter. “Anything that I said that offended anyone, I humbly apologise. “I know it (rape) is a heinous crime and it looked like I was making light of that. I was not. That was absolutely not my intention and does not reflect me as a person. “But, I do know many people were upset and for that I am truly sorry. In the future there will not be an issue with me making such clusmy, insensitive and downright stupid comments. “I really hope anyone offended by my insensitive words will accept this really heartfelt apology.” The South African Football Association have already said they will not stand in the way of Chiefs’ appointment of Baxter. The SAFA bosses barred Belgian coach, Luc Eymael, from working in the country again, after he compared his Tanzanian club Yanga SC supporters to “monkeys and dogs’’“That ( Stuart Baxter) matter was put to rest a long time ago when Stuart Baxter apologised and said it was out of context. “And, the Indian association closed that matter. From an official standpoint, we do not have any issue,” Safa CEO Tebogo Motlanthe told Phakaaathi. “Remember that even with Luc (Eymael) we acted because Tanzania reported it directly to us. “They said this is what has happened, this is what Luc has said and they sent us all the evidence. India have not sent us anything.” Baxter won two league titles, the MTN and the Nedbank Cup during his first stint with Amakhosi. Club chairman Kaizer Motaung believes his return will further them on their course to success. “We believe we are on track with the changes we have made so far in the coaching and technical department after a challenging season domestically,” Motaung said. “After extensive reviews and consultations, we decided to appoint Stuart because we believe he is one coach who understands our philosophy and culture. “We know his work ethic and believe he will work with the team we have at the moment while trying to rebuild and ensure we have a formidable side for the new season.” Baxter is set to work with Arthur Zwane and Dillon Sheppard as assistant coaches with the support of the newly appointed Head of Technical and Development Molefi Ntseki. — Sports Reporter/KickOff.com/Citizen.