The Herald Ivan Zhakata Herald Correspondent Teen Rescue Mission (TRM) has commended President Mnangagwa’s directive to smoke out drug kingpins, drug peddlers, and gun-toting robbers. This comes after President Mnangagwa sounded a death knell to drug kingpins, drug peddlers, and gun-toting robbers after he instructed the country’s law enforcement agents to smoke out and bring such characters to book. TRM is an organisation that educates youths and brings awareness on drug abuse, early pregnancy and crime. The organisation has expressed its appreciation to President Mnangagwa on putting a voice on the drugs saying the move will go a long way in creating drug free generation in line with the National Development Strategy (NDS) 1. Director of TRM Mr Abraham Matuka said it was encouraging that the President was waging a war against these social vices which corrupt the youth’s moral fibre. “As Teen Rescue Mission we are already in the trenches educating and speaking against drug and substance abuse, crime in teens and youth,” he said. “We feel complimented by the President’s bold message on abstaining from drugs and crime in our nation of Zimbabwe. We are willing to implement the Government’s drive to curb drug and substance abuse on teens and youth. “The call by the President comes at a time where our social fabric due to Covid 19 and unemployment is greatly affecting people’s behaviour and causing juvenile delinquency among the youth. As Teen Rescue Mission not only are we an advocacy champion we are also a reformist champion where we give unemployed youths, youths without hope alternatives means of survival.” Mr Matuka said they were impressed by the move for it does not only help the youth but also transform future generations. “A clean generation assures a prospective future for Zimbabwe because the youths are the backbone of the country’s development,” he said. “If our youths degenerate into zombies due to drug abuse it means whatever policies the Government makes to improve the economy, they will not be able to participate.”