The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
FORMER Dynamos forward Ngandu Mangala is in Namibia where he is hunting for a new club. The DRC-born striker was among the players that were shown the exit by the Glamour Boys in a clean-up conducted by the team’s coach, Tonderai Ndiraya, earlier this year. His handlers confirmed that talks are at an advanced stage with an unnamed Namibian club. Mangala is represented by Gilbert Sengwe. “Mangala is out in Namibia and the deal is promising. At the moment I think it’s too early to divulge the name of the club until we finalise everything,” said Sengwe. Football in Namibia, however, has been suspended until June 30 following the surging numbers of Covid-19 cases. With the Namibia Premier Football League now at the penultimate stage, Mangala could be angling for a deal for the next season. Mangala had his top-flight breakthrough with Dynamos in the 2019 season after signing from Division One side, Green Fuel. He was among the bulk of players scouted by Lloyd Chigowe to plug in the holes after the Harare giants had failed to finance recruitment of new players on the market. The Congolese looked a good prospect when he joined the club. He scored a beautiful second half brace which gave Dynamos a winning start to the season over debutants Mushowani Stars in 2019. But he could not maintain the momentum as he went on to spend nearly five months without finding the target. His only other league goal came against the same opponents in the return matches when he headed in the opening goal in DeMbare’s 2-0 win over Mushowani Stars. As a result, he failed to nail the starting place under Ndiraya. He was a notable omission when DeMbare announced a 28-man squad ahead of the start of the current season.
The Glamour Boys also parted ways with the likes of Kudzanai Dhemere, Munyaradzi Diya, Nkosi Mhlanga, Byron Madzokere, Albert Manenji, Tawanda Chisi, Lennox Mutsetse and goalkeeper Simba Chinani. The squad, announced by Ndiraya, featured a host of new players signed during the coronavirus lockdown, which disrupted domestic football for over a year. DeMbare is led by Partson Jaure and they have retained few of their experienced players like Godknows Murwira and Ali Joseph Maliselo.
They have brought on board seasoned players like Sylvester Appiah, David Temwanjira, Trevor Mavhunga, Barnabas Mushunje, Newman Sianchali, King Nadolo, Shadreck Nyahwa, Jean Mutudza, Tinashe Makanda, Frank Makarati and former Hwange goalkeeper Taimon Mvula. Dynamos were top of Group One when the Chibuku Super Cup was halted as part of the broad measures to contain the spike in Covid-19 cases in the country.