The Herald Crime Reporter Suspected serial armed robber and former police officer Rudolf Kanhanga alias Tapiwa Munatsi (29), who exchanged gunfire with a police crack team in an attempt to evade arrest with his other alleged accomplices in Beitbridge last year, is facing a fresh armed robbery charge arising from an incident in Bikita in 2019. Kanhanga was recently granted $2 000 bail pending trial at the High Court but had not been released and is still in custody. He is expected to appear at the Harare Magistrates Court soon. According to police, Kanhanga and his accomplices were part of a gang that allegedly robbed a Bikita businessman sometime in 2019 of $123 000, US$52 000, R184 000, a Toyota Hilux double cab vehicle and a laptop among other items. Kanhanga allegedly committed the offence while in the company Master Katsanza alias Nzunza, and another suspect only known as Tsano, Fredlife Toto Makaradi, Paradzai Rwaangira and Nyasha Matsike. After committing the offence, Makaradi, Rwaangira and Matsike were arrested while Kanhanga and the other accomplices fled. The offence was allegedly committed on November 8, 2019, when Kanhanga and his accomplices went to the businessman’s house during the night where they used iron bars to force open the doors to gain entry. They then confronted the businessman and assaulted him and his family while demanding cash. They were given $23 000 before they ransacked the house and took the other money. The robbers then tied up the businessman and his family before force marching him into the vehicle they had taken from him, the Toyota double cab. They drove along the Mutare-Masvingo Road and the businessman and his family were later dumped near Pamushana High School in Bikita. The stolen Toyota Hilux was dumped in Chivhu and they left the laptop and the car keys on the ignition. Kanhanga’s three accomplices were arrested on December 7 in Glen View and police recovered a Toyota Hiace and a BMW 318i believed to have been bought using the stolen money.; Kanhanga was last week granted bail by High Court Judge Justice Webster Chinamhora. Along with Musa Taj Abul and other gang members, the suspected robbers were arrested in dramatic fashion in Beitbridge last year, with dog teams playing a leading role. Other alleged accomplices were Beitbridge-based police officer Tapiwa Mangoma alias Tapa (27), Liberty Mupamhanga (29), Prince Makodza (31), Godfrey Mupamhanga (27) and Charles Lundu (47) all of Harare. The gang is linked to a number of armed robberies, including the famous Mashwede case in Harare. Recently, suspected serial armed robber and gang leader Musa Taj Abdul (47) had his bail application dismissed by Justice Webster Chinamhora. Taj Abdul’s application came after his two other accomplices, Liberty Mupamhanga (29) and Rudolf Kanhanga had also approached the High Court seeking bail but their applications were dismissed and they remain in custody. Their other two suspected accomplices Spicer Takawira (28) and Musafare Mupamhanga, who were released on bail pending appeal at the High Court, have since disappeared and have been issued with arrest warrants. Takawira, Musafare Mupamhanga and Conwell Kasambarare are alleged to be part of the gang that raided Mashwede Holdings last year and got away with over US$100 000, R42 000, $14 000 worth of fuel coupons, firearms and 20 live rounds of ammunition.