The Herald Ellina Mhlanga-Senior Sports Reporter WITH Zimbabwe fielding a number of young athletes in the Africa Triathlon Championships in Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt, coach Pamela Fulton says it’s all about development. The competition got underway yesterday. Zimbabwe has a 10-member team competing, including six athletes participating in the Youth Under-17 male, and Youth Under-15 male and female. Austin Gill is competing in the Under-17 male, while Joshua Jacobs, Matipa Mawere and Duwan Botha will take part in the Under-15 male. Emma Lidsba and Anje Van As are representing the country in the Youth Under-15 female. Matthew Denslow is up for the challenge in the Under-23 Men. Team captain Mikayla Colegrave, Makanaka Mawere and Andie Kuipers will compete for honours in the Under-19 Junior Women. They will all be out on the race course today for the individual races. The team will wrap up the tour with the mixed relay team event tomorrow. “Six athletes in the youth category, and all of these athletes are coming on tour for their first time apart from Josh,’’ she said. “He has raced in South Africa Championships before, has been on tour before. So, for all of them, it is a brand new experience. “And, originally there was only Zimbabwe on the start list but it’s fantastic to see that Kenya, and some Egyptians, are on the start list, so we are looking forward to see how they fare against other African federations. “Unfortunately, for the mixed relay team, both Matt and Mikayla will be departing early and not able to be a part of this relay. “So, we have got Andie, who will be experienced with this. But, our other three team members will be competing in this relay, for the first time. “It’s all about development, for the future, give our youth this opportunity so that when they come back next year to compete.’’ Denslow and Colegrave were part of the field, in their respective categories last weekend, at the Africa Cup in Egypt. Fulton said there has been some slight changes to the course but is confident the team will be up for the task. “Matt will be racing in the Under-23 category but it starts at the same time as the elite category, so it is going to be a very fast race because you have got the likes of Henri Schoeman, who is doing one of his preparations for the Olympics. “But, he (Denslow) has recovered well from last weekend when he wasn’t speeding so well and he is going to give it his best tomorrow and, hopefully, have a great race, which he deserves,” said Fulton. After claiming bronze in the Junior Women last week, Colegrave goes into today’s race with confidence. United States-based Andie Kuipers will be out to secure a spot at the World Championships in the Under-19 category. They will be joined by Makanaka Mawere, who, has been in Egypt since last week, attending the ATU Junior Development. Team Zimbabwe Under-23 Male: Matthew Denslow. Under-19 Junior Female: Mikayla Colegrave (captain), Andie Kuipers, Makanaka Mawere. Youth Under-17 Male: Austin Gill. Youth Under-15 Male: Joshua Jacobs, Matipa Mawere, Duwan Botha. Youth Under-15 Female: Emma Lidsba, Anje Van As.