The Herald Crime Reporter The Zimbabwe Republic Police has arrested two suspected fraudsters who were masquerading as officials from the Registrar General’s office and fleecing passport seekers their hard earned money, misrepresenting to them that they would facilitate for them to obtain travelling and identification documents. The two are Onward Ruka (41) of number 2007, Egypt, Highfield, Harare and Rumbidzai Kawondera (38) of 130 Mlanga Avenue, Mbare and were arrested by detectives from the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) Commercial Crimes Division for fraud. Following their arrest, police have recovered a computer they were using to print counterfeit receipts, passports application forms and other documents. They also recovered other counterfeit documents which included academic certificates. CID spokesperson Detective Inspector Portia Chinho yesterday confirmed the arrests. “The two who are not employed are facing six counts of fraud. “During the period extending from September 2020 to April 2021, the two were stealing from the various complainants by misrepresenting to them that they were employees of the office of the Registrar General, passport office, Harare and they would facilitate obtaining of documents,” she said. In one of the cases which occurred on September 20, 2020, the suspects misrepresented to one of the complainant that they could facilitate the quick processing of a birth certificate and passport which she wanted. They demanded a total of US$340, and the complainant paid US$240. “When the complainant demanded for the documents, the accused persons became evasive which prompted her to report the matter to the police,” Detective Insp Chinho said. In another case which occurred in December 2020, the two defrauded another complainant a total of US$500 after promising him that he would obtain his passport within three days. The victim was never issued with a receipt and after the mentioned three days he was given a fake passport whose date of issue was 2013, which raised the suspicion of the authenticity of the passport. Police said the complainant demanded his money back and he was promised to be given another passport which he did not receive before the two became evasive. “In the month of January 2021, the two defrauded two complainants a total of US$1 392 which was meant for the renewal of four passports and a study visa. The two never got the passports and the visa,” Detective Insp Chinho said. Investigations by police led to the arrest of the two and they recovered a computer they were using to print counterfeit receipts, passports application forms and other documents. They also led to the recovery of other counterfeit documents which included academic certificates. “The police would like to urge members of the public to approach issuing authorities for any documentation processes. The issuing authorities have no middlemen. “They (members of the public) also risk being arrested for tendering of the fake documents and the mere possession of the documents is a criminal offence as they will be possessing articles for criminal use,” Detective Insp Chinho said. She urged the public to approach any nearest police station if they are suspicious of any criminal activity.