The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter JUAN MUTUDZA will be up for selection this afternoon when Dynamos face ZPC Kariba, in their quest to take control of Group One, in the Chibuku Super Cup tournament. The highly-rated Mutudza was the only outstanding player from those who had been affected by documentation challenges after the Glamour Boys last week registered half-a-dozen players. DeMbare responded to the boost by beating Yadah 4-0 and, in the process, scoring some great goals. Coach Tonderai Ndiraya believes that victory was now behind them as games are coming thick and fast. “We had a comfortable win, over the weekend, but have to quickly put this behind us, and focus on our next matches,” he told the club’s website. “We are looking forward to winning ways. “Our focus is now on the next assignment. We are going to work towards it and all we need is a positive result. “I believe the draw against Herentals worked for us. It made us prepare more. We played with much pressure from the first result.” Dynamos were a changed team, at the weekend, and even scored some beautiful goals, through their new recruit, Shadreck Nyahwa, and the versatile Godknows Murwira. Both Nyahwa and Murwira scored goals which could be contenders for the tournament’s Goals of the Season. They also had the luxury of giving 17-year-old Prince Edward schoolboy, Bill Antonio, his first senior cap. Ndiraya believes with all his 28 players now available, DeMbare have the depth for them to play at a high level. Unlike the six changes, made at the weekend, the Glamour Boys are not likely to tamper around with their team, this afternoon. “We are not going to bank on that win even though it gave us an indication that we have much depth in our squad,’’ said Ndiraya. “It’s still early days, and the performance is not really where we want, I think with more time, more practice and more matches we can get better. “We have a good squad but the boys need time to play together. “That will bring an improved performance in the long run. I’m quite impressed with what they did last weekend but we are now up for a new challenge. “Our target will be to get another positive result.” While Dynamos have managed to turn around their game, ZPC Kariba are yet to get into second gear. They have featured in two draws, against Harare City and Yadah, and have two points. The team’s coach, Godfrey Tamirepi, told The Herald yesterday they have been working on their weaknesses, with the hope of getting the breakthrough victory. “I can say this is going to be an interesting game. We had a slow start in this tournament,’’ he said. “But, I think the big positive we should take into this match, against Dynamos, is that we have done well defensively and have conceded only one goal. “However, we have had challenges with our conversion while Dynamos look like they have built momentum in that aspect. “So, it’s going to be interesting to see them coming up against our defence. We are motivated by the fact that we haven’t lost a game. “We only need to work on finishing because we have creating the chances.” Defender Byron Madzokere will not be available for selection as he has not recovered from a hamstring injury, suffered in the first game, against Harare City. However, ZPC Kariba have potential matchwinners in Moses Demera, Paul Chiramba, Johannes Sibanda, Samuel Makawa and Collen Muleya.  Chibuku Super Cup Fixtures Today: WhaWha vs Triangle (Grp 4, Mandava at 11 am) Dynamos vs ZPC Kariba (Grp 1, NSS at 1 pm), FC Platinum vs Ngezi Platinum Stars (Grp 4, Mandava at 3 pm)  Matchday 4 Fixtures Saturday: Harare City vs Herentals (Grp 1, NSS at 11 am), Manica Diamonds vs Black Rhinos (Grp 3, Sakubva at 1 pm), Bulawayo Chiefs vs Chicken Inn (Grp 2, Barbourfields at 3 pm) Sunday: Yadah vs ZPC Kariba (Grp 1, NSS at 11 pm) Cranborne Bullets vs Tenax (Grp 3, Sakubva at 1 pm) Highlanders vs Bulawayo City (Grp 2, Barbourfields at 1 pm), CAPS United vs Dynamos (Grp 1, NSS at 3 pm)