The Herald Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWE international cricketer Ryan Burl has joined Grassroots Cricket (Inc) to help use the power of cricket to transform young people’s lives in Zimbabwe and South Africa. “As a person and a player I feel like I have had a privileged upbringing. So it would be an absolute honour to present and help people less fortunate, to have an opportunity to succeed, not only in cricket but in life alsoI was able to play a sport I loved with my mates which, unfortunately, some kids do not have that same environment. “I want to use this opportunity with Grassroots Cricket Charity organisation to be helping those kids. To share the game that is full of friendship and enjoyment, as well as help them to a better start at life. I endeavor to be able to allow children to have dreams and ambitions but to also expose them to the joy they can experience after hitting a four, taking a wicket or just playing a game with your friends”. Grassroots Cricket (Inc) is the brainchild of Australia-based Zimbabwean Tawanda Karasa who recently embarked on a fund-raising campaign Down Under where he is sourcing for cricket kit that he would like to send to Zimbabwe. Funds raised by Grassroots Cricket will go towards the provision of sports coaches, life skills and projects, such as assistance with school fees, and community projects, to help provide food on the table for the underprivileged children in Zimbabwe. Grassroots Cricket is involved in raising funds, and collecting new and second hand cricket gear, for distribution to Africa. They are also planning Cricket-4-Hope cricket coaching clinics, ahead of Bangladesh’s tour of Zimbabwe, in July. The clinics will be held in Hatcliffe, Harare and Bulawayo. The programme will involve Zimbabwe national cricket team captain and Grassroots Cricket Zimbabwe president, Sean Williams, and all-rounder Ryan Burl, who is also the Grassroots Cricket ambassador. The clinics will also involve Elton Chigumbura’s newly-established cricket academy.