The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — A new-look Bafana Bafana rallied from behind to claim a 3-2 win over Uganda in a friendly international, at Orlando Stadium, last night. The South Africans were using the match as part of their preparations for the 2022 World Cup qualifiers. They get their campaign underway with a date against the Warriors in September. Warriors coach, Zdravko Logarusic, told The Herald, he would be monitoring last night’s match. Rushine De Reuck, Denwin Farmer, Sibusiso Mabiliso, Nkosinathi Sibisi, Craig Martin, Ethan Brooks, Sphelele Mkhulise and Bongokuhle Hlongwane were all given their international debut, while Ronwen Williams captained the side. Bafana were energetic from the start but trailed on 17 minutes after Ibrahim Orit sneaked in at the back-post, to head home, a right-sided delivery past Williams. The Cranes closed in to a second, within a matter of minutes, through skipper Emmanuel Okwi, who robbed Martin from possession to go clear, before going wide off the mark, in the end. Okwi was clean through again, a little later, after working an angle from a tight angle on the right, but he watched his shot deflect behind for a corner-kick. Bafana remained under pressure in the last minute before half-time with a first-time strike from Shafiq Kagimu following a corner, but Williams saved. Following a disjointed first half, Bafana installed changes in Thabiso Kutumela and Evidence Makgopa who replaced Farmer and Sibisi. Makgopa went and capped his debut in style 15 minutes from the restart as he attacked a left-footed delivery from Kutumela to beat goalkeeper Rashid Watenga from the near post. Bafana completed a total turnaround five minutes thereafter through Hlongwane who darted in from out wide to see his strike deflect past Watenga. Makgopa snatched a brace with eight minutes to go after he evaded one challenge in the area to drill home a dummy from Brooks. Uganda pulled a fight back three minutes from time when Abdu Lumala applied a snap finish in the area from a corner past Williams, but it was too little too late, as Bafana claimed the win. It was a welcome win for a side which spent the week battling a Covid-19 outbreak in their camp — Sports Reporter/KickOff.com