The Herald Ivan Zhakata Herald Correspondent The Tourism Business Council of Zimbabwe (TBCZ) has expressed a deep concern over the reported call by the Confederation of Zimbabwe Retailers (CZR) for a national lockdown, saying the move will cripple the travel and tourism sector, which is already struggling due to the Covid-19 pandemic. TBCZ president Mr Wengayi Nhau said it must be clearly understood that a national lockdown had consequences that were “massively destructive” to the travel and tourism industry. He said there was an unprecedented decimation of livelihoods and incomes for families and communities experienced in the wake of full lockdown measures. “The travel and tourism sector is starting to recover from the effects of this and it is hoped to regain a momentum to rebuild the sector, most especially to re-employ the thousands of people who have lost jobs and bring a measure of relief to the tens of thousands of people in families and communities affected by these job losses and business closures,” Mr Nhau said. “At present, there are businesses in our sector that are closed such as restaurants, while others are not able to perform the task that has kept them operational in the past year and a half, that is, the hosting of conferences by hotels. “Without in any way discounting the horror of Covid-19, there are ways that do not destroy lives through economic ruin and it is these ways that must be identified and implemented.” Mr Nhau said TBCZ did not support a national lockdown and urged caution in the methods used so that gains made in saving lives were not countered by immeasurable other moves. He said the travel and tourism sector achieved high levels of vaccination estimated at between 75 and 80 percent in Victoria Falls only. “In this regard, we find it irresponsible for CZR to make this call and we remind that association that its members who are supermarkets were among the very few operations allowed to operate in a national lockdown and are therefore not qualified to make calls that are prejudicial to other legitimate operations,” said Mr Nhau. “We urge a balanced programme of action by the authorities and avoidance of knee-jerk reactions that are desperately harmful in other ways.” This comes after CZR appealed to Government to implement a 30-day national lockdown owing to the continued rise in Covid-19 cases and the impending disastrous threat by the deadly third wave. “There is, however, a need for increased Zimbabwe Republic police (ZRP) presence in most parts of the country mostly communities and major highways,” said CZR. “It is also critical to highlight that the general citizenry must remain vigilant and be alive to the deadly threat posed by the third wave of Covid-19. “Law enforcement agencies should clamp down on illegal gatherings, illegal private house parties, close all shabeens as well as enforcing minimum numbers at funerals. Only essential service providers should remain operational during the proposed 30-day lockdown. Public transport operators should also carry 50 percent of their capacity.”