The Herald IF Washington Arubi extends his stay at Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila (TTM), for another season, he will play for a club under a new name. The Zimbabwe international goalkeeper was one of the stars at TTM and helped the club win the Nedbank Cup last season. He was named the tournament’s best player. However, Arubi’s contract with TTM is coming to an end and he is waiting for the club to decide whether they still want their romance to continue. The Zimbabwean, though, is unlikely to be without a number of suitors, after his stellar show, last season, which even won him praise from Manqoba Mngqithi, the coach of champions, Mamelodi Sundowns. “I’ve always liked Arubi,’’ he said after the ‘keeper produced a five-star show, to help dump the Brazilians, from the Nedbank Cup. “I’ve always believed he’s a very good goalkeeper. “And, today he really showed his quality, I am sure there are many other teams looking at him differently because he’s always been a good goalkeeper. “I was wondering why he had to slump down to NFD because he has always been one of the best goalkeepers in the country.” But, in the event Arubi remains at TTM, he will play under a new club name, and logo, next season. The club’s owner, Abraham Sello, announced the changes yesterday. Sello acquired the club, following their highly-publicised financial struggles under Lawrence Mulaudzi, who had acquired the top-flight status of Bidvest Wits. Sello’s arrival, and the decision to lure coach Dylan Kerr to the club, turned around their fortunes towards, retaining their top-flight status and winning silverware, in their debut top-flight league campaign. And, from now onwards, they will be as Marumo Gallants. “We’ve finished 12th in the DStv Premiership and proud champions of the Nedbank Cup and when we played the final game against Orlando Pirates — we closed a chapter of this club,” Sello said. “The new name of the club is inspired by the journey that has been rough outside the field but also made us experience victory and tribute to the soldiers of our team. “We’re ready to fight to make this brand bigger.” Meanwhile, SuperSport United chief executive, Stan Matthews, has hinted at why Bradley Grobler ignored a potential move to either Orlando Pirates or Kaizer Chiefs after extending his contract. The 2020/21 DStv Premiership Golden Boot winner had his initial contract expiring at the end of next season but has now extended it by a further two years, which will see him remain with the club until, at least, June 2023. Grobler enjoyed his best season in his career so far after scoring 17 goals and providing two assists in his 30 appearances during the 2020/21 campaign. Chiefs were reportedly looking to sign the Bafana Bafana forward as a replacement for Samir Nurkovic, who is the subject of interest in North Africa and the Middle East. However, Matthews has hinted that they want the 33-year-old to one day graduate into the technical team, led by Kaitano Tembo, could have influenced him to remain with the Tshwane outfit despite the potential of playing for one of the Soweto giants. “It’s two years and we will review again at the end of next season (on another potential extension). “I will be very happy if Bradley finishes his career with us and becomes our striker coach in the future,” Matthews told KickOff.com. Grobler, who joined SuperSport eight-and-a-half years ago from Ajax Cape Town, is the club’s record scorer with 64 goals after overtaking Abram Raselemane’s tally of 57 goals back in January. — Sports Reporter/KickOff.com.