The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter United States-based Zimbabwean Dr Rutendo Mudzamiri, affectionately known as “Dr Ru Bossbae” is set to launch her debut book in Harare tomorrow. Dr Ru, who arrived in the country on Wednesday night ahead of the book launch, revealed members of the panel who are expected to grace the event. The book entitled “Pray Through it and Evolve” was written a year ago and perfected during the start of the Covid-19 lockdown period. Musician and pastor Dudu Manhenga, Pastor Lisa Chiriseri, Prophetess Beaullah Machiri and Pastor Grace Kapswara are expected to officially launch the book, while Pastor Sarah Jakes Roberts will deliver a special message. In an interview, Dr Ru, who is well known for hosting the popular summit which involves women leaders in different communities, fashionistas, celebrities and radio and television personalities, said the event was strictly by invite and for only 50 selected guests. “I am happy that the day has finally come and can’t wait for the launch,” she said. “It will be hosted under Covid-19 regulations and restrictions. The launch is strictly by invite and all the invited guests have confirmed.” The event will run under the high-tea set up, hence guests are expected to dress up for the occasion. Dr Ru said the book was inspired by the power of prayer. “I just wanted people to be blessed, encouraged, and grow from the inside out through prayer,” she said. “I would say the message in the book is a culmination of a life lived from my late teens to this day. “It wasn’t an event that inspired the message, but several experiences that made me look back and write everything that has made it possible for me to come out of some of the hardest seasons of looking nothing like what life would have served. “I know that is a similar story for many people who dared to surrender their lives, ideas, thoughts, ways, situations to a more powerful, dependable force that empowers us to navigate life situations. In this case, it’s God.” Dr Ru said she wanted to demystify some myths that prayer or a life of prayer was boring. “Some would say that prayer is not fun, yet alone it is beneficial to us at any time because it is an exchange,” she said. “Prayer is therapeutic, a necessity that when tapped into, indubitably helps people, families, communities, leaders evolve and be more impactful. ‘‘I like to say impactful because when you tap into the mind of God, you express His thoughts in your world and become an extension of His kindness and all things Godly that if we dare tap into a day at a time, our homes and communities will be much better places.” Asked why she named the book, “Pray Through it and Evolve”, Dr Ru said that it was about personal leadership development that comes by dealing with the person inside out. “True, powerful growth starts when your spirit, soul, heart and mind are intact,” she said. “I felt it was a season to hold on a little bit more on God’s faithfulness and grow, adapt, evolve and impact His way at home, church and in the market place. “The message in the book feeds on my message and mandate as a leadership coach on the importance of wholeness for effective (self) leadership and of others. It’s an inside job.” Dr Ru said the launch was a celebration of a milestone and there was no better way to do it. “My hope is to serve many with the message in the book that I know blessed me as I was writing,” she said. “The launch is great, but my greatest joy is when I can eloquently deliver the message as I received it to those I’m meant to serve with my voice.” Dr Ru said the book was already on Amazon and will be in local bookstores soon after the launch.