The Herald LONDON. — World number three Rafael Nadal has pulled out of this month’s Wimbledon and the Tokyo Olympic Games. The 20-time Grand Slam champion, who won the Wimbledon titles in 2008 and 2010, says he needs to “recuperate after a long clay-court season”. “It’s never an easy decision but after listening to my body and discussing it with my team I understand that it is the right decision,” said the Spaniard. “The goal is to prolong my career and continue to do what makes me happy.” Japan’s Naomi Osaka will also not play at Wimbledon this year, but is planning to return in time for the Tokyo Olympics. The four-time grand slam champion will spend time with friends and family having also withdrawn from the French Open last month. At the time, Osaka (23), said she would be taking a break from tennis after experiencing depression and anxiety. The world number two says she is “excited to play in front of her home fans” in Tokyo. Nadal hinted at the decision after his defeat by Serbia’s world number one, Novak Djokovic, in the French Open semi-finals last week. If defending champion Djokovic wins the title at the All England Club, it will move him level with the record shared by Nadal and Switzerland’s Roger Federer of 20 men’s major singles titles. Nadal said the shorter turnaround between the French Open and Wimbledon — which starts at the All England Club on 28 June — was a key factor in his decision. This year, there are only two weeks between the French Open finishing on the clay and Wimbledon starting on the grass. Usually, there are three weeks between the two majors. The French Open was pushed back a week by Roland Garros organisers in order to start the tournament with fewer of the country’s coronavirus restrictions in place — including allowing fans in to watch. “The fact that there has only been two weeks between Roland Garros and Wimbledon didn’t make it easier on my body to recuperate after the always demanding clay-court season,” Nadal said in a Twitter post announcing the news. “They have been two months of great effort and the decision I take is focused looking at the mid and long term.” — BBC Sport.