The Herald Ivan Zhakata-Herald Correspondent The Zimbabwe National Statistics Agency (Zimstats) is now looking at measuring agriculture around Harare, and was conducting a household listing exercise in selected areas in Harare province this week and over this weekend. The purpose is to identify households involved in agriculture in the metropolitan province that will be selected for the full Agriculture and Livestock Survey scheduled for 28 June to 15 July 2021. ZimStats director general Mr Taguma Mahonde said during the listing exercise, his enumerators will be visiting each and every structure in selected enumeration areas to collect names of household heads, physical address of the structure, number of people in each household and what farming is done. “The information collected during the household listing exercise will be used for final selection of samples for the Agriculture and Livestock survey,” he said. “The main objective of the Agriculture and Livestock Survey is to collect data on the number of persons employed in agriculture and wages paid by sex and the area under crop, cropping patterns and crop production estimates. It also seeks to collect data on the inventory of livestock and livestock inputs, inventory of farm implements and machinery, construction of buildings and other infrastructure and transport and energy use. “Trained ZimStats staff comprising supervisors, team leaders and enumerators will be in the field to conduct the survey and will be carrying official identification letters and survey specific identification cards. The Agriculture and Livestock Survey is being conducted under the provision of the Census Statistics Act in terms of which information collected is strictly confidential and will be used for statistical purposes only.” Mr Mahonde said a similar exercise was conducted in the other nine provinces across the country and it covered six farming sectors of Zimbabwe namely large scale commercial farms, small scale commercial farms, communal lands, old resettlement schemes (Models A, B1, B2, and E), A1 farms and A2 farms. ZimStats is appealing for cooperation from households who have been included in our sample in this vital exercise.