The Herald LONDON. — Cristiano Ronaldo wiped US$4 billion off Coca-Cola’s market value after his press conference stunt on Monday. The Portuguese legend — who scored two late goals in a 3-0 win against Hungary — had told the watching world to “Drink Water!” as he sat down to speak to the media. The Juventus forward removed two bottles of the fizzy drink from the desk in front of him during his pre-match press conference ahead of their opening game win. Coca-Cola’s share price promptly dropped from US$56,10 to US$55,22. At one point during the day 1,6 percent of the company’s value had been wiped off — meaning the market value of Coca-Cola went from US$242 billion to US$238 billion — a drop of US$4 billion. There was a late recovery, with the price back up to US$55,44 at closing. Coke has since issued a statement in response to CR7’s actions, saying “everyone is entitled to their drink preferences” and that everyone has different “tastes and needs”. A spokesperson added: “Players are offered water, alongside Coca-Cola and Coca-Cola Zero Sugar, on arrival at our press conferences.” Later on Tuesday, devout Muslim Paul Pogba removed a beer bottle during his press conference following France’s 1-0 win against Germany. Ronaldo (36) has a famously strict diet and avoids sugary foods, eating clean up to six times a day to maintain his incredible physique while he ages. Meanwhile, AFP report that Manchester United have offered Ronaldo a two-year contract as they look to get him back to Old Trafford. Ronaldo has one year left on his contract with the Italian club, and is looking to move during the current off-season. According to a report in Italy, the Glazer family were impressed by Tom Brady’s efforts in helping the Tampa Bay Buccaneers win the Super and are looking to replicate that by bringing Ronaldo back to the club. Gazzetta dello Sport report that as the 36-year-old considers his options, United have already made their move, offering a two-year deal worth €20 million per year   per annum or £330 000 per week. Ronaldo, however, is said to be holding out for more money, and is willing to wait as long as possible before making his final decision on his future. “I have been playing at the highest level for many years, this doesn’t faze me,” Ronaldo said. “Maybe if I was 18 or 19 I might have had some sleepless nights, but I’m 36. Whatever comes will be for the best regardless of staying at Juve or being transferred. “The crucial thing now is the Euros, it is my fifth Euros, but for me it’s like my first Euros. We want to play a good match with good thoughts from the first to the last match.” — The Sun.