The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter THE Confederation of African Football president Patrice Motsepe says the continental body is in the process of implementing governance and other changes which will make African football competitive and self-sustaining. The South African businessman is at the helm of an organisation which has been riddled with corrupt and malpractices by the previous leaders. He has vowed to clean that image. And Motsepe has been doing some marathon meetings with important stakeholders where he came face-to-face with reality and people’s negative perception of CAF which stems from the body’s failure to adhere to ethics and governance issues. Since his election in March, Motsepe has met with the private sector, sponsors – both current and potential – and other important stakeholders who include Heads of State as well as government ministers. According to the latest communication from CAF, the South African businessman is committed to implementing the recommendations of the CAF audit which unearthed massive irregularities. “The President of CAF, Dr Patrice Motsepe issued a statement today (Sunday) outlining the activities and governance and other changes that the new CAF leadership is introducing since their election in March 2021; to make African football globally competitive and self-sustaining. “It became apparent to the new leadership of CAF after conducting several meetings with current and potential sponsors, the private sector, some African Heads of State and Government ministers and stakeholders in football; that they have had a poor and negative perception of CAF concerning its adherence to governance, auditing, ethical, financial and management good practices. “These negative perceptions may, to some extent, be confirmed by the incriminating and damning Price Waterhouse Coopers (“PWC”) CAF Interim Report which identified certain irregular, unethical and improper transactions and conduct. This Report was circulated to the CAF Member Associations in May 2021. “CAF is committed to implementing the recommendations of the Final PWC CAF Report and ensuring that the irregular, unethical and improper transactions and behaviour do not happen again. “This should result in CAF being regarded and viewed as a respected Confederation that implements and adheres to governance, auditing, ethics, financial and management global best practices; making it attractive to current and potential new sponsors and partners,” read the statement.