The Herald AFTER 15 wickets fell, on the first day of the first Test between Afghanistan and Zimbabwe in Abu Dhabi yesterday, Twitter exploded as another game delivered a lot of scalps. Cricket is still trying to adjust to the wild events in Ahmedad which saw India beating England within just two days. The Test lasted just 140.2 overs — or 842 balls — in all.  That puts it seventh, on the list of the briefest completed Test matches, the shortest since 1934-35, when England beat West Indies on a rain-affected pitch in Bridgetown, in a match that lasted only 112 overs (672 balls). Three years earlier, on a similarly spiteful track in Melbourne, Australia beat South Africa in the shortest completed Test of all. It lasted just 109.2 overs (656 balls) — South Africa were bowled out for 36 (left-arm spinner Bert Ironmonger, who was two months short of his 50th birthday, took 5 for 6) and 45 (Ironmonger 6 for 18). The Ahmedabad Test was the 22nd to be finished inside two days. After 15 wickets fell in Abu Dhabi yesterday, Twitter exploded and here are some of the comments: Gaurav Kalra @gauravkalra75 “Every time Zimbabwe play, you can get so much joy, just looking at the wonderful first names in their playing XI — today they have a Prince, a Blessing and a Victor on the park.’’ Tommy P @TommyPearsonUK “@sean14williams (Sean Williams) is such a quality batsman. If Zimbabwe played more tests I really think we’d see him up the rankings.’’ Janani @njan85 “Why isn’t anyone talking about this pitch where 15 wickets have fallen on day One?’’ @mahadada “15 wickets on the first day of the #AFGvZIM Test in Abu Dhabi. Imagine the furore about the pitch if it was England playing and the English media covering this game?’’ Diamond FM @diamond1038FM “Afghanistan bowled out for just 131 on Day 1 of the 1st Test. Good to see three of the players in the Zim Team from Dangamvura (Donald Tiripano, Kevin Kasuza & Victor Nyauchi) in first Team jerseys representing the east today!’’ “So what do we say about this? Poor pitch, too much spin or lack of application and skills. The debate is still on.’’ Shehab Khan @ShehabSK1 “Amir Hamza tried his very best with his 4-wicket haul but the first day of firstbAbu Dhabi Test belongs to Zimbabwe.’’ Moi_cray cray “Enjoyed most of the day’s action but feel the game is still in the balance. . . Raza’s fall was a big loss to Zimbabwe. Need the skipper to kick on tomorrow morning (today), a lead over 100 would be probably take Afghan out of the game.’’ @Rayn_Muche_ZW “Captain’s knock by @SCWilliams14 leading @ZimCricketv by example with a half century, a wicket and a catch at end of day today thank you Mr Captain. We are waiting for it to be translated to a century tomorrow. . . Well played @ZimCricketv skipper.’’   — Sports Reporter/Cricinfo/Cricbuzz.