The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter
THE Premier Soccer League will know whether they are going to play this season under a cluster competition or the traditional format on May 1 when the annual general meeting is convened. The league has proposed to return under a cluster competition, which will be hosted in four cities, with teams playing in groups. This will cut costs for the clubs that will not be enjoying any gate-takings this year. The outcome of the proposal is expected to come out after club chairmen meet for the annual indaba which will set the tone for the beginning of the season. PSL have tentatively set May 16 as the day for the start of the season while the six weeks of pre-season training will run from April 2 to May 15. The league has published a calendar with a timeline of their immediate events. March 25 to April 2 have been scheduled for testing of all top-flight clubs. However, the mass testing of players and officials, which will be done through the Medical Committee, is yet to start. ZIFA are expected to fund the initial costs of Covid-19 tests. The league has requested US$100 000 from the motherbody for periodic Covid-19 testing. The top-flight clubs are expected to have fully paid up their USUS$2 500 affiliation fees by tomorrow. The league, however, has extended the player registration to April 15, after it was initially closed last week. According to a working document that was leaked last week, PSL chief executive, Kenny Ndebele, made the proposals, which were also submitted to ZIFA and to the clubs for consideration. The top-flight clubs are yet to adopt the proposals. Clubs will be placed under four groups, Group One for six Harare teams — CAPS United, Dynamos, Harare City, Herentals, Yadah and ZPC Kariba. Group Two will have Bulawayo teams — Bulawayo Chiefs, Bulawayo City, Chicken Inn, and Highlanders. Group Three will have Manica Diamonds and Tenax together with Black Rhinos and Cranborne Bullets. Zvishavane will have the fourth group — FC Platinum, Ngezi Platinum Stars, Triangle United, and Whawha.