The Herald LONDON. — Tyson Fury has given a worrying interview pouring cold water on his potential undisputed world heavyweight boxing decider with Anthony Joshua. The Gypsy King has kept quiet while his own promoter Bob Arum, AJ’s matchmaker Eddie Hearn and Joshua himself have hinted at a huge announcement this month for a June clash in Saudi Arabia. Hearn has even sold Brit fans the dream of the second-leg of the two-fight rivalry happening at a packed Wembley stadium, after the lockdowns have lifted. But Fury, who claims he is necking up to 12 pints A DAY and not eating, says he will NEVER fight in the UK again and the AJ fight is well off schedule. Fury, who has a habit of conning reporters, told IFL: “Whatever they say is very unimportant to me because, until I have a fight date and a hell-of-a-lot of money in my pocket, there is no fight. “Will I be fighting Joshua in the next ten minutes? No. Do I think the fight will eventually happen? Yes, it has to happen. Do I think it is next or imminent? No. “I am not going to hold my breath for it, that’s for sure. “I am not going to put all my eggs in one basket because I have been guilty of doing that before and, when the fight doesn’t happen, that is when I end up in a massive depression and feel like killing myself. “I am not going to say ‘it is definitely happening in June or July’”. Fury has not boxed since his brilliant February 2020 rematch win over Deontay Wilder that earned him the WBC title that is the one missing from Joshua’s collection. The WBA, IBF and WBO title-holder has teased fans with a big announcement coming soon — but Fury claims he has swapped triple training sessions for beer marathons. With a straight face, he said: “I have stopped training at the moment, I am on holiday. “I am drinking anything between eight, ten, 12 pints of lager a day, at the minute. “But I am not eating so I am getting my calories through alcohol. “I have trained and trained and trained with no progress so I am now a man of leisure.” Fury was supposed to fight in London on December 5 in a celebrated homecoming bout. — The Sun. But he clashed with his promoters and broadcasters about his pay and level of opponent so embarrassingly the bout was binned. The 6ft 9in undefeated ace, who has now gone over a year without a fight, is demanding two in the next nine months but has ruled out ever returning to the UK. After Wilder accused him of cheating in his magnificent Las Vegas coronation, Fury ruled out a trilogy clash but, in a total 180, that is now back on the table. He said: “I have two fights this year and I don’t give a f*** if they are with, Joe Bloggs, Fred Flintstone, Mike Tyson, anybody. I just want to fight this year. “Don’t write Wilder out of the equation next, I could be having the trilogy fight with him yet. “There is a lot going on behind the scenes and Wilder could be next. “I will never box here again. No. Finished. “The superstar of world boxing will not box in small halls anymore. My new home is in Las Vegas. “I intend to stay there and end my career over there.”