The Herald Bharath Ramaraj in BENGALURU, India — FOR about 25 overs of the third ODI between Zimbabwe and Pakistan in Bulawayo in 2018, it didn’t seem as if there was a contest taking place. The hosts were snuffed out for a mere 67 after electing to bat. However, amidst the doom and gloom, there was a silver lining for the home team. Blessing Muzarabani, at the age of just 21, bowled a peach of a delivery that bounced extra from short of a length to force Imam-ul-Haq to glove it to the ‘keeper. Muzarabani didn’t take another scalp in that game, but the wicket-taking delivery demonstrated the potential of a 6’8” pace bowler who could extract disconcerting bounce from a slightly fuller length. A few months before the ODI series against Pakistan, the tall fast bowler was playing for Northamptonshire in a Second XI game against Durham. Muzarabani didn’t just pick up a rich haul of wickets in that match, but also caught the eye of Northamptonshire’s coach, David Ripley. Northamptonshire signed up the promising quick bowler on a Kolpak deal. “I made the decision to play county cricket because I really wanted to learn. Everything is so different in county cricket. I wanted to know how to control the ball. “I felt like playing county cricket would help me to find the length I should bowl as a tall bowler because there are not a lot of 6’8 bowlers around the world. “County cricket helped because you need to bowl full to get wickets in those conditions. I have learnt a lot of things, I have learnt how to control the swing, how to bowl full, how to manage my body,” Muzarabani said. Muzarabani had a fruitful time with Northamptonshire, with the highlight turning out to be his metronomic spell against Worcestershire in the Bob Willis trophy last year. But, by the end of the 2020 county season, he had another decision to make. With the United Kingdom leaving the EU, the ECB advised the counties that players with Kolpak deals wouldn’t be allowed to take part in various domestic competitions held in the country as non-overseas players. Muzarabani held talks with Zimbabwe Cricket and was soon picked in the squad to play Pakistan in a limited-overs series. “It is really a blessing for me, representing my country. It means a lot to me, I always wanted to play for my country when I was young, so for me to get an opportunity again is a wonderful feeling.” In the absence of the injured Kyle Jarvis, Muzarabani had the added responsibility of spearheading the attack in Pakistan last November. Now 24, he grabbed the opportunity with both hands by raising his game in the Rawalpindi ODI. In what turned out to be a thriller, Muzarabani went on to pick up a five-wicket haul and, when the match ended in a tie, he took up the task of bowling the Super Over. Although inexperienced with just over 20 ODIs to his name, Muzarabani bowled with a mature head on his shoulders, dismissing Khushdil Shah and Iftikhar Ahmed to propel Zimbabwe to a rare victory “About the Super Over, I’m grateful that it happened because I was really, really working hard in England to perform one day on the big stage. “But, also it was just one good performance, at the same time I want to do more, I want to help my country win more games, win on the big stage.” Muzarabani’s career is certainly on the right track. In the ongoing Test match against Afghanistan in Abu Dhabi, he once again gave a glimpse of his improved wicket-taking nous. With Afghanistan one down, he went slightly wide of the crease and forced Rahmat Shah to edge one behind with a delivery that held its line. He was rewarded for his efforts as he bagged a four-for to put Zimbabwe on the front foot. However, for Muzarabani and his teammates to blossom in the cricketing arena, they will need a stronger foundation. Thankfully, after a period of time in which the players’ opportunities were limited by Zimbabwe Cricket’s financial problems and then the Covid-19 situation, things are looking up for the game in the country. ZC have erased their debts ahead of schedule, and are now playing as often as the pandemic makes practical. “There is a bit of change that is there. A lot of guys, who weren’t playing first-class cricket when I took a decision to go to England, now they are playing domestic cricket and doing well. “Some of them are scoring big runs and taking five-fors. . . that is really exciting.” — Cricbuzz.com.