The Herald Precious Manomano Herald Reporter • People should get information on proper care for teeth • Oral diseases can impact every aspect of life • It is important to brush teeth twice a day and eat a balanced diet Zimbabwe Dental Association (ZIDA) in partnership with the Ministry of Health and Child Care and other partners today celebrate the importance of good oral health at the same time raising public awareness on how to maintain consistent and effective oral hygiene habits for a healthy mouth and body. The day is commemorated on March 20 worldwide. This year, the day is being celebrated under the theme: “Be proud of your mouth”. World Oral Health Day is an international day that is set aside annually to celebrate the benefits of the health mouth and to promote worldwide awareness of issues around oral health. A dentist from Zimbabwe Dental Association Dr Zanele Venika  said people should get information on proper care for teeth  for them to avoid developing cancer, non-communicable diseases in the mouth, gum bleeding and bad breath, which could lead to death. “Failure to get your mouth checked regularly could lead to you developing serious diseases or other non-communicable diseases in the mouth to an extent where you could lose your life,” she said.
Dr Venika  said regular education on proper care for teeth was vital in preventing teeth extraction. “Oral diseases can impact every aspect of life, from personal relationships and self-confidence to school, and work and even to the enjoyment of food, “she said. She also highlighted the importance of brushing teeth twice a day and eating a balanced diet to avoid the decay of teeth. Results of a survey conducted by the American Dental Association in 2012 found that many people are not aware of some of the basics to good oral hygiene, such as how often to replace a toothbrush. Other findings by the CDC (Centres for Disease Control and Prevention) show that half of people aged 30 and older already have some form of periodontal disease and while people agree that routine oral health is important, only 44 percent seek professional dental care on a regular basis. According to the World Dental Federation, the body that represents more than one million dentists in over 130 countries, oral conditions rank among the most prevalent non-communicable diseases and affect almost four million people worldwide. Oral health is important, only 44 percent seek professional dental care on a regular basis.