The Herald DURBAN. — Golden Arrows coach, Mandla Ncikazi, has contributed to the debate over the challenges which black coaches find in an environment still battling to heal from the scars left from the effects of apartheid. Ncikazi is in charge of three Zimbabwean internationals — Danny Phiri, Devine Lunga and Knox Mutizwa. For a long time black coaches have had it tougher — including in Europe — in earning the respect and belief of club bosses and Ncikazi believes this can be attributed to the consequences of the harm colonialists left on the African race. “I don’t want to answer it in terms of coaching. I want to answer it in terms of societal mindset,’’ he told KickOff.com. “It is true that the history of our country did a lot of damage in a lot of us and there is a saying that, ‘if you want to kill a black person, then send another black person.’ “That is the history of apartheid. “Despite the drastic improvements, in our league, the issue of bosses preferring to give jobs in that preferential line is still there. “Just like you will find players not jumping as high when demanded by a local coach compared to when an import of a different skin colour says so. “This is not in football alone. The problem is in the history of this country but not in our team. Some black people will rather take instructions from someone with a lighter skin colour than another black African. “It’s unfortunate that there is still this feeling that blacks are second-class citizens. It happens all over the world, including South Africa. “The racism that happens in football is the outcome of the fact that we are still not regarded as real humans, which is very sad.” Ncikazi has been muscling his way against the traditional powerhouses this term, keeping Arrows firmly in the top half, in his first full season at the club that he has served in various capacities, spread over two spells, stretching back to 2007. Ncikazi also said there it wasn’t necessary for coaches to have played the game and also talked on the tricky subject which has seen a number of coaches, being divorced or staying single, because of the nature of their job. Golden Arrows missed the chance to leapfrog Swallows into fourth place, in the DStv Premiership, after they were held to a goalless draw by Baroka yesterday. Lunga returned to the starting XI, proving he is fit for national duty for the Warriors, despite being involved in a road accident, recently. Arrows made five changes, as they recalled Lunga, Matome Mathiane, Gladwin Shito, Ntsako Makhubela and Lindokuhle Mtshali while Baroka were unchanged. Zimbabwe international goalkeeper, Elvis Chipezeze, who was not considered for national duty for the upcoming AFCON qualifiers, was on the bench for Baroka. Joslin Kamatuka came close to giving Baroka an early lead in the 12th minute after he had space to have a strike from the edge of the box but shot-stopper Sifiso Mlungwana parried his effort away towards the bottom corner. — KickOff.com.