The Herald FBC Bank and FMC Finance have joined forces towards giving back to the community through sponsoring the tertiary education for underprivileged learners across the country’s 10 provinces under the ED-UNZA Scholarship initiative. The sponsorship will provide an ultimate opportunity for underprivileged, but academically gifted students in Zimbabwe to pursue careers of their choice at the University of Zambia. As responsible corporate citizens, the leading financial services institutions have committed to paying tuition/university fees, fund all travelling expenses and provide for the subsistence of the scholarship beneficiaries through provision of fundamental needs namely laptops, tablets (digital learning tools) and clothing. This will address inequalities in terms of accessing high quality tertiary education, as underprivileged or orphaned learners who excelled in their advanced level studies may fail to access university education due to socio-economic constraints. In turn, the sponsorship will positively impact on the prosperity of future generations and eradicate the adverse consequences of poverty. Commenting on the development, Dr John Mushayavanhu (FBCH Group Chief Executive) said, “FBC Bank and FMC Finance have been brought together in unity with the common goal of promoting inclusive access to tertiary education. “This worthy cause has been spearheaded by His Excellency, the President of the Republic of Zimbabwe, Cde Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa’s firm commitment towards improving the livelihoods of disadvantaged members of the society.” “Education is the Cornerstone of our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives and “lifelong learning” is one of the FBC Holdings Group’s core values. “Consequently, we value the creation of a conducive learning environment for all learners to achieve their academic dreams through availing key fundamentals required by every child in order to have equitable access to high quality education. It is against this background that we felt obliged to give back to the community through the ED-UNZA Scholarship initiative that aims to improve the plight of underprivileged learners,” he said. Dr Rangarirai Mavhunga (FMC Finance Group Chief Executive Officer) said, “ We believe in providing smart financial solutions to alleviate poverty, create jobs, improve the lives and livelihoods of economically active underserved rural and urban households. As such, the most important contribution that we can make to society is to educate young and underprivileged generations who are the future leaders of our nation,” “We are well-placed to foster creative and innovative ways of making a positive impact on the well-being of the local communities in which we serve. Consequently, we have no doubt that this scholarship fund is well aligned to our worthy cause as it improves the livelihoods of future generations,” he said. “Education and human capital development are key drivers of sustainable economic growth that benefits all key sectors of the economy. As corporates, we will all realise significant benefits from contributing to the country’s sustainable development through investing in the education of the population. “It is also imperative to note that universal access to high quality education is one of the 17 Global Goals that make up the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Promoting universal access to education requires the combined efforts of public and private sector players. As such, we urge corporates to come on-board and support this worthy initiative for the benefit of the nation,” added Dr Rangarirai Mavhunga.