The Herald DURBAN. – South Africa’s largest tribe paid tribute to its fallen king yesterday as Zulus gathered wearing leopard skins and multi-coloured beads in mourning. King Goodwill Zwelithini died early on Friday at the age of 72 in the eastern city of Durban after weeks of treatment for a diabetes-related illness. He was the longest-serving monarch in Zulu history, reigning for half a century through years of apartheid and democratic transition. His remains were yesterday taken back to his birthplace, the small southeastern town of Nongoma in KwaZulu Natal province, where he was to be laid to rest after midnight. The intimate ceremony, to be conducted behind closed doors, is referred to as a “planting” rather than a burial. Royal prime minister Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi said the media would not be allowed to attend or broadcast the ceremony. Bare-breasted women in elaborate necklaces and headbands danced and sang as they paraded to the funeral parlour where Zwelithini’s body has been kept. Men known as “amaButho,” or Zulu regiments, followed the maidens in traditional leopard skins and ostrich feathers – wielding spears, shields and clubs known as “knobkerries.” The mourners marched behind a banner reading “thank you for being the shining light of hope.” They stopped for a brief vigil outside the town hall where they were joined by locals, some still in work uniforms. “We feel extremely naked, we feel like somebody has undressed us, deprived us of the blanket that covered us,” said town mayor Albert Mncwango. Residents lined the streets as the procession slowly made its way to the KwaKhethomthandayo royal residence under a menacing sky. As the dark clouds thickened, historian Khaya Ndwandwe said the rain was “a symbol that we are planting a king”. The Zulu royal household said that President Cyril Ramaphosa would deliver the eulogy at the memorial service of the  king today. Family spokesperson, Prince Thulani Zulu, said: “The president will be coming to address, I think we’re looking to balance between the tradition and the protocol of the government and we will have to reach the place where all of us are satisfied. Meanwhile, Health Minister Zweli Mkhize says the government is working with the AmaZulu royal family to ensure health protocols are in place ahead of the planting of the AmaZulu King. – Daily Sabah/SABC.