The Herald LONDON. — Cristiano Ronaldo’s US$3 600 cat, which was left close to death after being hit by a car, is now recovering in Spain where it was flown for treatment. The scary-looking bald Sphynx pet was run over, after escaping the luxury Turin home the former Man United star shares with his stunning girlfriend. Model and influencer, Georgina Rodriguez, opened up about her family heartache as she revealed they had sent their beloved animal to Spain to recover with her sister Ivana after time in intensive care. The 27-year-old is believed to have flown Pepe, thought to have been named after Ronaldo’s Brazilian-born Portugal and ex Real Madrid teammate, on the footballer’s private jet to Madrid to continue its rehabilitation. The hairless cat, a star of the couple’s hit Instagram sites before its accident, became part of their family just over two years ago. It has enjoyed luxury holidays with them and got its first taste of Ronaldo’s Gulfstream G200 long before its terrible accident. The 36-year-old Juventus striker was once filmed playing with it as he laid on his front in a T-shirt and underpants while his partner massaged his calf muscles. Georgina sparked pregnancy rumours last May by dressing the cat up as a baby and taking a picture of it being kissed by Ronaldo’s three-year-son Mateo. The brunette beauty let the cat out of the bag on the car collision in an interview with Spanish magazine Instyle, saying: “Pepe has given us a terrible scare. “It escaped from home and was run over. “It was close to death and after a month and a half in intensive care at the vet’s, we’ve decided my sister Ivana should look after it. “Pepe’s now in Spain recovering.” Georgina, who has a three-year-old daughter with Ronaldo called Alana Martina and is the day-to-day mum of his other three children, added: “The youngest ones didn’t understand Pepe was sick and wanted to play with him. “Now he’s in the best hands.” Georgina introduced the new addition to the family to her 23 million Instagram fans in November 2018 by posting a picture of it on her lap alongside a message saying: “Pepe wishes you a nice day.” Sphynx cats are so expensive because they are purebred and hard to find. They are regarded as being among the most lovely and friendly moggies who are good with kids as well as other pets. Although their name is Egyptian-sounding, the breed’s origins began in Canada in the sixties when a mutant hairless kitten called Prune was born among a normal furry litter. Critics dismiss them as grotesque alien-like creatures that barely deserve to be called a cat. — The Mirror.