The Herald LONDON – Manchester United won’t sack Ole Gunnar Solskjaer if they fail to win a trophy, according to reports. The Norwegian has his side in contention to win the Europa League, while they look primed to finish in the English Premier League top four for the second season on the trot. And the 48-year-old is poised to sign a new contract with the Red Devils soon. Manchester United gambled in December 2018. They chose to sack Jose Mourinho and put Solskjaer in charge on an interim basis, with the Norwegian leaving Molde to return to Old Trafford. After a successful run, United then gave the job to the 48-year-old permanently and, since then, they’ve improved. United are on course to finish second in the Premier League table, while they’re also the favourites to win the Europa League. And ESPN say the Red Devils won’t sack Solskjaer if they fail to win a trophy, and no new contract is dependent on silverware. United were dealt a blow over the weekend, slumping to a 3-1 FA Cup defeat to Leicester City at the King Power Stadium. But the Red Devils are happy with the direction they’re heading in, believing Solskjaer has done enough on and off the pitch to warrant a contract extension. There is some concern about what a delay to a new deal would bring, however. United don’t want Solskjaer’s contract to run deep into his third and final year in case it causes an unwanted distraction. Players were impacted amid uncertainty over Sir Alex Ferguson’s future in 2002, something the Scot later acknowledged before he decided against retiring. And United are planning for the long term with Solskjaer in mind. The Norwegian was consulted over the appointments of John Murtough and Darren Fletcher as football director and technical director respectively. And it’s said Solskjaer’s relationship with both men was key to them getting jobs in those departments. Previous reports have suggested the 48-year-old will be given a £9million annual salary as part of any potential extension. And former Crystal Palace boss Simon Jordan thinks Solskjaer is entitled to that money, saying recently: “Do I think any manager is worth £9-10million a year? No, I don’t. “But in the economics of football, which is La La Land, yes they are. “And is Ole Gunnar Solskjaer entitled to be paid at a level that’s commensurate with other managers? Well, yes, probably. He’s second in the Premier League. “We do have to pinch ourselves sometimes and look at what these guys are getting paid against what they’re actually doing. “The general context of how much managers are getting is absurd but it’s the nature of the beast… “Ole Gunnar Solskjaer at Manchester United, they have been consistent. Irrespective of the carping by the people like me as I think he’s a tier below the likes of Guardiola and Klopp, but it’s the going price. It’s the territory that they’re in. “£9million a year to get an elite football club like Manchester United under his watch to currently win nothing is seemingly a reasonable expression of reward or recognition of the achievement. These guys have been consistent.” – The Daily Express