The Herald Speech by His Excellency Mr Emmanuel T. Chenda, Zambia’s Ambassador to Zimbabwe, during the send-off ceremony of 10 students to the University of Zambia under the ED-UNZA Scholarship Trust. The Honourable Minister of Higher and Tertiary Education, Innovation, Science and Technology Development, Prof. Amon Murwira, The Permanent Secretary Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, Amb. Manzou, The Chairperson of the ED-UNZA Scholarship Trust, Mr Herbert Nkala, The Vice Chancellor of the University of Zimbabwe, Prof Mapfumo, The students going to Zambia, Invited guests, ladies and gentlemen. Before I go any further, on behalf of Zambia and indeed on my own behalf, may I take this opportunity to convey our deepest sympathies on the untimely passing of some distinguished members of the Cabinet, as well as many other Zimbabweans who have succumbed to the Covid-19 pandemic. It is our sincere hope that through concerted efforts, we shall triumph over the ravages of this global plague. Honourable Minister, invited guests, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to express my sincere gratitude for the invitation to witness the sending off of the ten students to the University of Zambia, who are beneficiaries of the ED-UNZA Scholarship Trust. This initiative is a clear testimony of the importance that His Excellency the President of the Republic Zimbabwe, Dr Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa, attaches to education, more especially that the scholarship is targeting highly gifted candidates from disadvantaged families. It is a recognition of education as an equaliser and a key driver towards industrialisation and development of any country. This development is also in the spirit of the Memorandum of Understanding on Science, Technology and Innovation between our two great countries, which seeks to, among other things; promote the sharing of best practices in the areas of higher education, loans and scholarships. This ceremony is a culmination of the pledge that His Excellency the President made in Lusaka, Zambia, in November, 2019, to award Presidential scholarships to deserving candidates to study at the University of Zambia. It is gratifying to note that Zambia was chosen for this important milestone. Let me also take this opportunity to thank His Excellency the President for extending this gesture to Zambia by offering scholarships to Zambian students to study at universities in Zimbabwe. That is a demonstration of the premium that the President places on his enduring connection with Zambia. This momentous milestone does not only consolidate the existing excellent bilateral relations between the two countries, but also supports efforts aimed at creating synergies between universities in the two countries. To the beneficiaries of the scholarship, I wish to assure you that the University of Zambia is a highly ranked and reputable institution with a track record of excellence in teaching, learning, research, consultancy and community engagement and has demonstrated to the world the values of its diverse range of offerings in the higher education sector. Since its inception in 1966, the University of Zambia has churned out eminent personalities in various fields, who have served humanity with distinction. Its luminaries include His Excellency the President, Dr Mnangagwa, His Excellency the President of the Republic of Zambia, Dr Edgar Chagwa Lungu and the late President of the Republic of Zambia, Dr Levy Patrick Mwanawasa. Obviously your selection is a testimony of the confidence that your benefactors have in you and I have no doubt that you will excel in your various fields of study. I want to assure you that you will be safe in Zambia as the country has continued to enjoy peace and tranquillity. I wish you a wonderful stay in Zambia as you embark on your academic journey. Once again I wish to say thank you to His Excellency the President for this gesture.