The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter LEGENDARY coach, Sunday Chidzambwa, has hailed the Warriors for doing well, under difficult conditions, to qualify to the AFCON finals again. The veteran coach broke the duck, when he guided the team to their first Nations Cup finals appearance, in Tunisia in 2004. The gaffer was back in the AFCON finals trenches, when he returned with the team, at the 2019 showcase in Egypt. Yesterday, Chidzambwa said it always feels good to qualify for the Nations Cup finals, regardless of the team having made it, in the past. “I am excited that we have qualified for the third time, in a row, and this is the first time we have done that,’’ he said. “It feels good to be counted among Africa’s finest. “We have qualified at the expense of others like Zambia, the former champions, which is good. “Well done to the technical team led by Logarusic (Zdravko), they did well under difficult conditions, we are happy and salute them and the players.’’ He said it was now just a matter of time before the Warriors really shake the AFCON finals with a magical run. On all the four occasions they have been at the showcase, the Warriors have failed to progress, beyond the group stages. “We hope soon we will reach double qualification figures and, I think, we are now near the stage of going beyond the next round,” he said. “Now is the time to get organised and address all the issues and problems that might arise at the finals. “When we go to the finals, let’s go after we have addressed all the issues, so that we only focus on football, and not address our in-house issues, at the tournament. “If we go with one mindset, it will help us to focus and even reach the quarter finals, or go even further. “That has been my observation, after going to the finals twice, with the team.’’ Chidzambwa said he will never forget the first time the team booked a place at the finals. “The first time is always exciting. We were so excited as a nation. I still vividly remember the day, we were at Raylton and a group of UZ students toyi-toyed from their campus,’’ he said. “I was showered with beer and water and they asked me to address them. “They then proceeded to Cresta Lodge, where the players were, it was a great feeling but I am happy that, after that triumphant moment, we have managed to qualify four more times.’’ Warriors’ fans, around the globe, have been congratulating the team. The footage of the players celebrating, singing “Basa Tasiya Tapedza” inside their dressing room, has gone viral. Yesterday, the ZANU PF Youth League also congratulated the Warriors. ZANU PF acting deputy secretary for Youth Affairs, Tendai Chirau, in a statement, encouraged the corporate world to support the team, as they prepare for the January finals. “As ZANU PF Youth League, in recognition of sport as a key rallying point for the people of Zimbabwe, we join the nation in congratulating the boys for a job well done. “We congratulate the coach, Zdravko Logarusic, team captain Knowledge Musona, the entire Warriors team management, and the rest of the troops, for doing the nation proud in a splendid show of strength of character. “The severe depletions to the squad effected by the Covid-19 pandemic, and injuries, could not deter them. “Their victory demonstrates that team performance earns more than the winning. It earns the understanding of the entire nation. “It teaches us the value of trust and working together. “We now urge the team to keep this spirit up and proceed to make history by going past the group stages, hitherto our nemesis, in past tournaments.’’ He said the Warriors deserve support. “Equally, we implore all concerned stakeholders to add to this momentum by pulling all plugs to support this highly capable and committed team,’’ read the statement. “We urge government and the corporate world to stand up, and be counted, in appreciating the sterling work being done by the Warriors in marketing Brand Zimbabwe, by at least, establishing adequate seamless preparatory structures, to ensure the team has less worries, outside the field of play. “This includes judicious resumption of the sport code under revised, applicable Covid-19 restrictions, to afford the players precious game time parity, with other competing nations. “For once again demonstrating to the world, the immense depth of talent and fortitude within our youth, we thank you, our Warriors. “Makorokoto, Amhlophe! May your performances continue to bring smiles to the nation! Go Warriors Go!.’’