The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter DYNAMOS have opened negotiations with nine players, in a bid to retain their services, following the expiry of their contracts. The Glamour Boys signed players, enmasse, in preparation of the 2020 Premiership season. However, most of those players penned one-year deals and some could walk away, without kicking a ball in DeMbare’s colours, after the 2020 season was washed away by the Covid-19 pandemic. Already, some like Konti Mhlanga, signed from Yadah Stars, and Lenox Mutsetse, have already left, without playing a single match, for the Harare giants. While Tonderai Ndiraya’s side have remained active, on the market, after their recent signing of Frank Makarati, Tinashe Makanda and Trevor Mavhunga, they will have to put attractive offers, on the table, if they are to retain nine of their signings last year. Highly-rated midfielders Juan Mutudza, King Nadolo and Tinotenda Chiunye could be on their way back to their parent clubs, as they had been offered, to the Glamour Boys, on loan. Mutudza signed from Herentals while Nadolo and Chiunye are from ZIFA Central Region Division One side TelOne and Aces Youth Soccer Academy. Defender Emmanuel Jalai and Jarrison Seremani’s two-year loan spells from AYSA have also run out. The contracts of goalkeeper Simba Chinani, Ghanaian defender Sylvester Appiah, who signed from ZPC Kariba, as well as former FC Platinum striker, Albert Eonde from Cameroon, have all expired. Utility player Godknows Murwira, who has been on a one-and-a-half year loan from FC Platinum, is also now a free agent. Dynamos spokesperson, Yvonne Mangunda, said they have since opened negotiations with all these players, after Ndiraya indicated he was still interested, in their services. “Everything is on course, regarding the retention of players, guided by the coach’s recommendation,” said Mangunda. “Internal processes are ongoing, for retention of the players, guided by the coach’s recommendation. “The administration is siezed with that matter and we are confident all the players, which the coach has recommended, will stay put.” Ndiraya said he is still very keen on bringing the players back into his fold. “Look, we signed most of these players last season, with a view to play them in 2020, plans which, unfortunately, were stifled by the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Ndiraya. “I am aware that their contracts have run out and I have since communicated with our administration. “I am happy that the administration have already started talking to these players and their representatives. “I am particularly happy, due to the fact that the players themselves are keen to play for Dynamos, and that makes negotiations a bit smooth.” The Herald understands Ndiraya is also interested in the services of Black Tigers left-back Powell Govera, the only one from Division One, who made the CHAN trip to Cameroon in January. Govera gave a good account of himself, in the Warriors’ opening two games against hosts Cameroon and Burkina Faso, and he is now top of Ndiraya’s wish list. The pair of Ngezi Platinum Stars’ Keith Murera and Mandlenkosi Mlilo could as well be on their way to the Glamour Boys. Mangunda confirmed her team were interested in Murera. “Yes, we have expressed our interest in Keith Murera and due process is underway, between Dynamos and Ngezi Platinum, but there is nothing concrete as of now.” DeMbare last won the league title in 2014. They have offloaded some of their key players from the 2019 season, including Tawanda Chisi and Kudzie Dhemere.