The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter AFTER taking up chess, at the tender age of six, Kudzanai Charinda never thought the sport would one day take her around the world. The 27-year-old is now one of the senior Zimbabwe national team stars, having earned her national colours in the juniors, as an Under-16 player, a decade ago. A University of Pretoria law graduate, Charinda has several medals, in her trophy cabinet, won both internationally, and regionally. “I started playing chess when I was around six-years-old, watching my father play with my two brothers,’’ she said. ‘’It was not long before I had a lot of interest and, in 2009, I represented Zimbabwe at the Under-16 Africa Junior chess championships. ‘’I came third, after winning a bronze medal. ‘’I took a small break, concentrating on my academics and in 2016, I became a women candidate master at the 2016 World Chess Olympiad in Azerbaijan. “I also represented Zimbabwe at the 2018 World Chess Olympiad in Georgia, United States. ‘’Through all the exposure and experience, I managed to win 2018 Gaborone Open Ladies section, and Francistown Open Ladies Section.’’ Charinda says her dream is to become a Women Grand Master, in the next five years, and have a chess academy while also practising as a part-time coach. “Passion and determination drove me all the way and I am happy I have very supportive parents who would go that extra mile to fund most of the tournaments I attended. “It was easy for me to give time to chess while also pursuing my academic career because I was so determined. ‘’Even up to now they are very supportive. “My favourite openings are Sicilian for black and English for white and I was inspired by Hou Yifan because she is currently the strongest female chess player and she is not afraid to face even the toughest male competitors.’’ Now a Zimbabwe Chess Federation administrator, Charinda likes to watch reality shows. “The sport is now gender sensitive because there is now a ladies section where we play on our own. ‘’However, we need more female players in chess,” she added.