The Herald Tanya Sharil Ncube Midlands State University FOR a message to be communicated effectively, one has to take into consideration a number of factors that contribute to the message being conveyed effectively. It is safe to say that it is futile to address rural people in a language they do not use as their home spoken language because when addressing people, one has to address them in accordance to the language which they use mostly every day. If one goes to Matabeleland region and addresses people there, say, in ChiShona it means there is likely going to be a barrier. Therefore, the desired message is not going to be communicated properly. Addressing people in the rural areas in English, could simply mean the message being conveyed is not directly meant for them. This is because people might not even understand a word being said due to lack of proficiency in English, thereby rendering the whole exercise meaningless. For an example, in churches or at events, interpreters are brought in so that everyone understands. In a village set up it becomes worse to address villagers in English because their exposure to the language for their everyday needs is limited. Of paramount importance, due to language barrier, rural people tend to miss out on important information, for example, an official addressing rural folk on the dangers of not following Covid-19 regulations, renders the exercise a challenge to the people because they are missing out on crucial information due to reliance on English language. It will be difficult to draw the attention of the people because it is rather offending for an official to address people in a language that clearly not all the people understand. Some of the people prefer not to attend such events because it is a waste of time to them. It also a waste of resources on the part of an official because a lot of resources are put into preparing for an event in the form of transport to the rural areas. Travelling to rural areas requires money, so it is a waste of time to travel to a place in order to make an address to people who will not even benefit from what is said. It is quite crucial and important to consider issues of language barriers and rectify them. Officials should first conduct a mini-research on the crowd they wish to address. They should have knowledge of the language people are comfortable with. Interpreters are also a solution to the problem in the sense that even if the address is made in English, at least an interpreter will be on hand to explain to the people so that the purpose of the address is achieved. John Ndlovu Midlands State University In order for one to be acknowledged in life, they have to work hard to prove themselves. This, therefore, means there’s stiff competition between those who get recognised and those who remain just trying. This, however, becomes a challenge for the disabled. It means that the disabled are born with less chances of participation in all aspects of life. Even when they strive and make it to school, the competition is mostly unfair, meaning they have to compete only against themselves. If they are made to compete with the able-bodied, emotions of pity are evoked thereby making the competition unfair. Their condition mostly demands more time than the able-bodied, meaning if one is a carpenter for them to finish a product, requires more time thus in a market place the able-bodied would have more advantages compared to them. The disabled are confined to certain professions like farming, carpentry and poultry. The disabled need a strong representation that gives them the same opportunities as the able-bodied, like their own marketplace, free or less expensive educational institutions to give them the same right to basic education. The disabled do not need pity but support and grounds to exercise their skills. The disabled need to be associated with the able-bodied as this will boost their self-esteem and they would learn some things and adopt ideas from the able-bodied. After all, whether able-bodied or disabled, the social and economic growth of the country depends on us all. Kundainashe Chimbi & Vimbai Katiyo Midlands State University February 21 was proclaimed a holiday in 2017 in recognition of Cde Robert Mugabe’s birthday and his role in championing the 21st February movement that celebrates the contribution of young people to development. This year’s National Youth Day provided young innovators from all corners of the country an opportunity to demonstrate their work to Government and stand a chance to secure technical and financial support for their innovations. This is a way that in other words is providing a ladder to the youths for them to move to a higher and better level. The 2021 event was held virtually in line with the Covid-19 pandemic regulations that do not permit gatherings and the theme for this year was, recognizing and appreciating young people’s contributions to the national efforts to combat Covid-19. The National Youth Day is also there not only to recognize and celebrate contributions made by the youths, but also for the young people to emulate the leadership values which include patriotism, hard work, self-sacrifice, respect, compassion and dignity only to mention a few. The Minister of Youth, Sports, Arts and Recreation, Dr Kirsty Coventry, said as the world adjusts to the new changes where ICTs have become the answer to demands of daily activities, it is the resilience, easy adaptation and innovativeness of young people that is of paramount importance to overcome the current challenges. The government banks on the innovativeness and hard work of young people for the country to find solutions to different challenges that include the Covid-19 pandemic, hence the National Youth Day is significant for engaging the youths and get their contributions. The National Youth Day provides a clear opportunity to hear the opinions and views of the youths, to create dialogue with the Government and most importantly to act on the needs of young people. Paidamoyo Emely Shati Midlands State University Chikorokoza (artisanal and small-scale mining) is something that has been looked down upon in the society. However, looking at Kadoma “chikorokoza” has helped develop affluent neighbourhoods and is supporting other businesses such hardware shops through building of houses, shops and schools. Admiring the lives being led by panners in Kadoma there are a few words that best describe the lives of the gold panners – flamboyant, prominent, and inspiring. A few people in Zimbabwe understand the mining industry yet most of them ignorantly underestimate “Chikorokoza”. Kadoma is a small city which is rapidly developing, thanks to chikorokoza. A lot of makorokoza (panners) are doing well.  This is seen through the type of cars and houses they live in or own. There are people empowering youths through employment, therefore minimising the proliferation of idle youth on the streets. People who have managed to build outstanding complexes and private schools in Kadoma empowering children through quality education. Most children attending the private schools in Kadoma are children of “makorokozas”. Chikorokoza has made it possible for people to venture into other businesses such as real estate. People have built beautiful residential garden flats, raising development in communities to a new level. The city of gold has hotels and chill spots built through the hard-working gold panners. These pioneers have inspired upcoming youth miners such as Eziekel Chinoingira who through mining says that he has managed to invest into farming of tobacco. Most of the youths are inspired by the potential in mining since minerals are not being fully exploited. The zeal to better their lives has made them tap into mining.