The Herald The month of March has finally come to an end and hope we are all ready for April. March was the women’s month as they celebrate their excellency and achievements. I will not dwell much on the activities that took place, as always women love space and opportunity to shine. What you wear sometimes defines you and actually helps you to shine. This season is all about being free as not many events are taking place because of the Covid-19, so dressing up was not an option. I am sure you are still trying those clothes in the closet, otherwise you end up donating them for being too small. When it comes to fashion, the beauty side compliments the whole look. No matter what age you are, you can benefit from developing a skin care regimen for your skin. How many times have you thought about your skin? It’s not only women who need skin care products to maintain their skin and avoid future problems such as wrinkles, acne and roughness, men too need the right treatment for their skin. Gone are the days when those men who are watchful about their skin were stereotyped, but now it’s more of a lifestyle. Men’s skin is generally oilier than that of the majority of women, which leads to acne issues. Proper skin care should be a daily priority for men. A good skin care regimen is more than washing your face while showering. Facial hair glands also produce oil, therefore, a man’s skin is oilier than woman’s skin. Oil can trap moisture, keeping skin hydrated and more youthful looking — but the downside to oily skin is that it is prone to acne. The texture of a man’s skin tends to be rougher, able to withstand more daily abuse, and while the daily routine of shaving provides the benefit of exfoliation, it can also lead to skin sensitivity. How then should men take care of their skin? I met up with musician cum beautician Faith Candy who said for men it starts with the moustache. She said grooming is important for men, especially this time compared to previous years as the issue will also highlight how men are being sensitive to skincare. “When those awkward hairs started growing out of your upper lip, you should learn how to shave,” she said. “For many men, shaving is the extent of their skin care routine. While shaving is one of the most common male grooming habits, it’s far from the only thing you need to do to properly care for your skin.” Health-line guide shared some of the male grooming habits, starting with the basics: Wash your face Men just wash your face daily with clean water twice a day if possible that is — when you wake up and again before bed. Most men do it in the shower in the morning, but not before bed. Night is the more important time to wash away the sweat, dirt, oil, free radicals and dead skin that build up throughout the day. Hydrate. Aside from washing, moisturising is the best thing you can do for your skin. Use a facial moisturiser to hydrate your face after you wash or shave. Moisturisers with retinol can help fight wrinkles and the other effects of ageing. Yes, it is now normal to buy moisturiser in the shop just like what you do with bread or beer. Use a regular body lotion to moisturise from the neck down after you shower. At minimum, you should rehydrate your hands and feet. Hands are your most washed body part and are the likeliest to dry out. Feet lose a large number of skin cells from all the foot traffic and are prone to calluses. Moisturise your hands and feet twice a day, just like your face. Lotions are only half of it. You still need to drink plenty of water to restore the natural moisturisers in your skin from the inside. Limit the number of alcoholic and caffeinated drinks. Both dehydrate your skin. Practice good shaving habits Back to shaving, the latest multi-blade razors can work too well. They cut too close to the skin and pull at the hairs beneath the surface, causing razor burn and in-grown hairs. If this is a problem, downgrade the number of blades and up your shaving cream to one with a moisturiser. Replace your razor regularly. Blades dull after five to seven shaves, making them less effective and harder on your skin. It’s best to shave in the shower or immediately after because it opens up your pores and softens your hair. Just don’t leave your razor in there. The moist environment can lead to bacteria and fungi, which can potentially infect your skin. Store your razor in a medicine cabinet instead. Exfoliate Exfoliation removes the dead skin cells that simply washing cannot. But don’t overdo it. Too much and you can do more harm than good, leading to damaged skin, redness and breakouts. Exfoliate your skin two or three times a week with a gentle exfoliating sponge or a wash cloth and a mild cream. The more sensitive your skin, the gentler method and chemicals you should use. Shaving helps to exfoliate your skin, but don’t rely on that alone. The rest of your face and body need it, too. Always follow up with a moisturiser because exfoliation is one more thing that can dry out your skin.