The Herald CAIRO. — Comoros made history yesterday when they qualified for the Africa Cup of Nations finals, for the first time in their history, after a goalless draw at home against Togo. The match may have been low on incident but that will matter little to the island nation of just under one million inhabitants. For they are now celebrating one of the biggest achievements of a country which has been more famous for its history of political coups and music than any sporting success. Wild scenes of celebration broke out on the final whistle as fans, players and politicians celebrated the shock qualification for next year’s finals in Cameroon. Comoros had never won a major qualifier until 2016 when they beat Botswana in what was their 20th attempt to win either a Nations Cup or World Cup qualifier. Five years on, they are top of Group G – featuring record African champions Egypt no less – with three wins and two draws from their five matches. Although Kenya can catch Comoros on nine points, they cannot overtake them courtesy of the Harambee Stars’ inferior group record against the islanders. Even before this qualifying campaign began, expectations were low that the Coelacantes could sit at Africa’s top football table — but they have achieved the feat with a game to spare. Much of the credit will go to Amir Abdou, national coach since 2014 and whose insistence on bringing in players from the diaspora to play for the team has revolutionised their fortunes. “I think I was the only professional when I arrived in 2010,” captain Nadjim ‘Jimmy’ Abdou, formerly of Millwall and AFC Wimbledon, told BBC Sport Africa before the game. “We were 5 or 6 expatriates at the time. It’s clear that we started from the bottom but year after year, with the addition of other professionals, the whole organisation became more professional.” Prior to this match, defender Said Bakari credited coach Abdou for his insistence on playing football on the floor given the fact that few of the national team players are – in his words — ‘tall [and] strong’. The Netherlands-based defender had also said it would be ‘magical’ for Comoros to reach the Nations Cup where they can expect to face some of the giants of African football. “The Nations Cup is huge,” rapper Alonzo told BBC Sport Africa. “There are some big countries which are really, really great in terms of football. It would be huge to face these big nations of the continent.” Comoros are the eighth team to qualify for the Nations Cup, joining Burkina Faso, Guinea, Mali, Senegal, Tunisia, African champions Algeria and hosts Cameroon. Seven-time champions Egypt joined Comoros in qualifying to next year’s AFCON finals from Group G, after a 1-1 draw in Nairobi against Kenya, yesterday. Mohamed Magdy Afsha scored the opener for the Egyptians, in the second minute, before Abdallah Hassan scored the equaliser in the second half. The result sees Egypt go to nine points, same as Comoros who drew with Togo earlier on. Kenya remain third with four points and will duel with Togo in a dead rubber bottom-of-the-table clash in Lome on Monday for bragging rights. Knowing that a win, or a draw, would see them pick a ticket to Cameroon, the Egyptians wanted to start as quickly as possible off the blocks and they were rewarded, just two minutes into the game, when Afsha broke the deadlock. The Al Ahly man struck a brilliant shot into the roof of the net after Ahmed Mostafa dummied a cross from Mohammed Salah on the right. But, despite going down early, the Kenyan side gave in a good account of themselves and got several scoring chances, settling into the game well. Mohamed Elshenawy was kept busy in the Egyptian goal as the Kenyans constantly tried to find a way back into the game. Skipper Michael Olunga had a chance in the seventh minute but his low shot off an Abdallah Hassan cutback went straight to the keeper. The Kenyans had another opportunity in the 17th minute when Daniel Sakari’s long throw landed on Johnstone Omurwa, but the latter’s flicked header was well collected by Elshenawy. Seven minutes later, the Ahly keeper was called to work again, this time Teddy Akumu’s shot from outside the area off Hassan’s cutback stinging the goalie’s gloves. Five minutes to the break, the hosts thought they had their way back into the game when Masud Juma scored off Akumu’s clipped pass but the first assistant referee’s flag was up for offside. The home side kept the same tempo in the second half and two minutes in, Elshenawy was made to work when Masud struck a good shot from the edge of the area after a swift turn. Olunga picked up the rebound but sent his rasping shot into the side netting. On the other end, Egypt almost made it 2-0 when Stars lost possession cheaply with the ball fed to Mahmoud Trezeguet but Ian Otieno was quick off his line to block. Stars kept their gas on the gas and came close on the hour mark when a brilliant cross from the left, but Hassan’s connecting header at the backpost went over. They however went level five minutes later when Hassan struck the equaliser off a goalmouth melee from a corner. Kenya’s hunt to get an equalizer was dealt a blow in the 76th minute when defender Omurwa was sent off for an off the ball incident with Mohamed Mostafa. With a one man advantage, Egypt pushed more bodies upfront to try and stop Kenya’s forays of attack and it worked as they held on for the win. — BBC Sport/CAF Online.