The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter YOU have probably seen it, or read it, the amazing tale of a player who scored all four goals on day in the local league. Two for his team and two for the opponents. It’s been trending on social media. “Did you know? In 1978 Black Aces and Arcadia United drew 2 -2 in a league match played at Gwanzura Stadium. Black Aces defender, Simon Mudzudzu, scored all four goals in the match,” someone posted on Twitter. Sounds too good to be true, and Mudzudzu, who once formed a twin centre-back partnership with icon Sunday Chidzambwa at Metal Box in the 1970s, says it’s a joke. “This thing has been going around for a long time,’’ he said from his base in the United States.. “The first one, they claimed it happened in Mutare in 1976, playing against Mutare United, yet Black Aces was formed in ‘77. “The second claimed it happened at Arcadia in 1978. Someone even did an audio. ‘’This third one claims it happened at Gwanzura but they are just lies, it never happened.’’ Veteran broadcaster, Charles “CNN” Mabika, said it was just another mischievous story, like the one about Asani Juma scoring six goals past Gift “Umbro” Muzadzi at Maglas. “Nothing of that sort ever happened. It’s a mischievous post,’’ said Mabika. “Just like that one which says Asani Juma once scored six goals past Muzadzi at Maglas. “Shabanie never beat Dynamos by such a scoreline at Maglas. “Yes, DeMbare always had a tough time at Maglas, but the few times they lost, it was either 2-1 or 1-0. “Simon Mudzudzu was a brilliant defender, one of the best headers of the ball, probably in the same class as Sunday (Chidzambwa), defending in the penalty area. “They once formed a partnership, a watertight defensive partnership, and one of the finest, before Sunday moved to Dynamos. “He never scored any goal, not even once, not even twice.’’ Mudzudzu is one of domestic football’s success stories. He bought his Glen Lorne house, when he was just 32, and is proud he sent his kids to some of the best schools in the country. Mudzudzu only left Metal Box in 2014. “(The late) David Muchineripi and other football players quit their jobs at Metal Box to pursue these coaching programmes (at Chibuku), and I had advanced myself when I was still playing, attaining supervisory qualifications at Harare Polytechnic with City and Guilds,” he said. Mudzudzu found himself at Metal Box in 1972, after playing for a number of junior teams, at Tornadoes and Arcadia United. “I started playing senior football in 1972 when I joined Metal Box, together with other players like Oliver Kateya (late), his brother Shadreck, who is now in the United Kingdom, Peter Manyara and Sunday (Marimo) Chidzambwa. “The following year the team was promoted into the First Division and, in our first year, we won the championship. “We did very well that year, myself and Chidzambwa, we were the centrebacks, Mike Chidzero was the goalkeeper, Peter Manyara was the leftback, Arnold Madzikatire rightback, Chita Antonio and Oliver Kateya were the strikers and July Sharara was also in that team. “Our coach was Allan Davie. “We played until 1975 when Sunday, and myself, moved to Chibuku, and I remember I broke the transfer record then when I was bought for $3 000 (Rhodesian dollars), which was a lot of money then. “I think Sunday was first bought for $2 000 and then they came back for me. “We played until the club folded. At Chibuku Shumba, we had the likes of Fresh Chamarenga, William Billy Sherman. “The team folded in 1976 but the players were kept together and decided to acquire the franchise of Metal Box and the soccer leader then, John Madzima (late), agreed and in 1977 the whole group of the players formed Black Aces. “Sunday joined Dynamos.”