The Herald Zvamaida Murwira Senior Reporter Cabinet yesterday approved the Provincial Metropolitan Council Bill which seeks to provide for the corporate status of provincial and metropolitan councils in line with Government’s devolution agenda. One of the essential elements of the Bill will provide how provincial councils are constituted by removing voting powers initially conferred to Members of Parliament from the organ so as not to compromise their oversight role on the Executive. Addressing journalists during a post-Cabinet meeting last night, Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services Minister Monica Mutsvangwa said Cabinet had considered and approved the proposed law. She said the Bill was presented before Cabinet by Justice, Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Ziyambi Ziyambi as chairman of the Cabinet Committee on legislation. “Cabinet was informed that the current Provincial Councils and Administration Act (Chapter 29:11) should be amended to align with the Constitution. Chapter 14 of the Constitution provides for matters to do with the creation of Provincial and Metropolitan Councils in line with the principles of devolution. “The Constitution further provides for the financial matters in relation to the devolution of power in Chapter 17 of the Constitution,” said Minister Mutsvangwa. She said some of the major highlights of the Bill are providing for the repealing of the Provincial Councils and Administration Act (Chapter 29:11) and substituting it with Provincial and Metropolitan Councils Act, provide for the corporate status of councils and procedure for alteration of provinces, give direction for the procedure to be followed in altering boundaries of provinces and districts in consultation with the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission and the people in the Provinces and Districts concerned. Other highlights are providing for the functions of Provincial and Metropolitan Councils, guidance on how membership for the Provincial and Metropolitan Councils will be constituted, providing for the conditions of service for council members, give directions on the election of a Council chairperson and the establishment of Committees of Provincial and Metropolitan Councils. She said the Bill will also provide for the exercise of legislative functions by Councils in their respective provinces and provide for the establishment of a Provincial Revenue Fund, books of accounts and all other standard financial provisions. Parliament is currently debating Constitutional Amendment (Number 2) which seeks to properly constitute provincial councils by removing voting powers initially conferred to Senators and Members of the National Assembly so that they become mere ex-officio members. Implementation of the devolution agenda is part of Government’s economic blueprint, the National Development Strategy 1 (NDS1), a successor to the Transnational Stabilisation Programme. The Bill also seeks to remove a clause that makes mayors for Harare and Bulawayo Metropolitan provinces, chairs of the provincial councils and replace it with a clause providing that a party with the majority will be empowered to chair the provincial councils of Harare and Bulawayo.