The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter BOXER Tinashe “Chairman” Madziwana says he will not lose hope, after his eighth-round knock-out defeat to Namibia’s Nathaniel Kakololo, in their ABU Africa featherweight bout in Windhoek on Saturday. It was Madziwana’s first fight, since May 2019, but the pugilist pushed hard in the opening rounds and, actually, led on the scorecard before a mistake sealed his fate. The national champion had set his sights on gaining a WBC ranking, and a shot at the board’s bronze belt, which comes with winning the ABU Africa title. “I am disappointed but that’s about it,” Madziwana said. “I was hoping to win this belt, and map a way towards claiming the WBC bronze title. “It was unfortunate, and I attribute all that to the mistake that l made in the eighth, of the allotted 12 rounds. “But, I am not going to lose heart. I will stand up again and try to go for other belts.” His trainer, Clyde Musonda of Deltaforce Promotions, said Madziwana gave a good account of himself but paid the price for going for a lengthy period without action. “I think he was too rusty. Going for two years, without a fight, is no joke,” said Musonda. “We should, however, give credit to Kakololo who got his tactics right. “What I know is Madziwana will definitely be back. He is a brave lad and he will be back.” While it didn’t go Zimbabwe’s way, in the professional arena, two amateur fighters, Trade Nkomozabo and Tadious Dzandiwandira, will be out to hoist the country’s flag high in the Olympic qualifiers in Tanzania. The pair arrived in Dar es Salaam yesterday, ahead of weigh-in, today. They are being accompanied by experienced national coaches, Alexander Kwangwari, and Stephen Masiyambumbi. Nkomozabo, who has an impressive 26-0-4 record, will battle in the flyweight category. Dzandiwandira (21-1-2) will fight in the welterweight section. Two other boxers, who were supposed to travel for the qualifiers, couldn’t make it after they retained positive results for Covid-19, just before departure. While Dzandiwandira and Nkomozabo have impressive records under their belts, odds are heavily stuck against them. They haven’t participated in other competitions, which would have given them points, to build on. Zimbabwe Boxing Federation marketing officer, Misheck Mushawatu, explained the difficulties the pair were likely to face. “As for the qualifications, if boxers win, they are credited points for the match, these points are then combined, with the matches the boxer has won in relation to the Olympic qualifying games picked from other qualifying games,” said Mushawatu. “The boxers, with the most points in each weight category, will automatically qualify for the Olympic Games. “The problem for Zimbabwe is that, unfortunately, we have failed to take part in some of the tournaments, such as the Morocco boxing tournament, which means we are fighting to get as many points as possible from this match. “If a boxer loses a match, they do not fight in the next one, as they will be automatically knocked out of the tournament. “But, we are confident the two will do well. We would like to thank the Zimbabwe Olympic Committee for assisting us.’’