The Herald Robson Sharuko Senior Sports Editor THE decision by the CAF leadership to cancel the Under-17 AFCON finals has provided ammunition to the campaign launched by The Herald for the postponement of this month’s 2021 Nations Cup qualifiers. On Monday, this newspaper, inspired by our role as a leader in protecting the national interests, launched the #POMANACUGA (#PostponeMarchNationsCupGames) campaign, to try and force the incoming CAF bosses, to move the qualifiers. The campaign was launched after the grim possibility the Warriors were set to be handed another raw deal, which will see them stripped of more than half of their regular players, who are unable to travel home to play against Botswana and Zambia. Tough regulations enforced by authorities in the United Kingdom and France means the Warriors will not have the likes of Marvelous Nakamba, Tendayi Darikwa, Tino Kadewere, Marshall Munetsi, Admiral Muskwe, Jordan Zemura, David Moyo and Brendan Galloway, for the two make-or-break assignments. There is even no guarantee that defenders Teenage Hadebe and Alec Mudimu, the team’s first-choice centreback pairing, who are based in Turkey, will also be allowed to come and home and play against the Zebras and Chipolopolo. Coach Zdravko Logarusic’s plight is even made worse by the reality the home-based players, who might be forced to fill those gaps, do not have the match fitness, as crudely exposed at the disastrous CHAN finals, to provide the necessary cover. The Algerians, too, who have already qualified for the next AFCON finals, are also likely to field a weakened side, as they are unable to call on their stars from France and the UK, like Riyad Mahrez and Said Benrahma, for their final two games. The weakened Desert Foxes will brighten the chances of both the Zebras and Chipolopolo, to get the results they are looking for, with this also working against the Warriors, who had to face a full-strength Algerian side, in their back-to-back matches. Without the Covid-19 restrictions, being enforced in Europe, Algerian coach, Djamel Belmadi, had indicated he would field his strongest possible side, with the African champions desperate to improve their 22-match unbeaten run. On Monday night, the CAF emergency committee cancelled the Under-17 AFCON finals, just five days before the first ball was kicked, in Morocco, in what should be a boost, to this newspaper’s campaign. “The Committee was made aware of the constraints faced by some of the participating member associations as well as the host country,’’ read a statement from CAF. “That includes the fact that the coronavirus pandemic continues to present significant challenges for the organisation of international sporting events. “Taking into account the cancellation by FIFA, of the Under-17 World Cup for which the Under-17 Nations Cup was no longer qualifying, the Committee further noted: “For all these reasons, the Committee decided to cancel the 2021 edition of the Total Under-17 Africa Cup of Nations.” That CAF could take such a big decision, when some of the participating nations — Uganda, Tanzania, Zambia, Senegal and Cote d’Ivoire — had already arrived in Morocco, illustrates the gravity of the situation. FIFA have already postponed the 2022 World Cup qualifiers, for South America, which had were scheduled to be held this month, after a number of European-based stars, were barred from travelling home, for the matches. Yesterday, ZIFA reacted to this newspaper’s campaign saying, while they wanted the strongest possible Warriors squad to play, in the final two 2021 AFCON qualifiers, they would not be dragged into media campaigns, to try and force CAF, to postpone the matches. The country’s football leaders appear to have been riled, by parts of the article announcing the launch of the campaign, in which this newspaper noted that they had not led the campaign, as they should have done, to protect the interests of the Warriors. “The Zimbabwe Football Association has noted with concern, an article in today’s (yesterday’s) edition The Herald, with the headline ‘Let’s unite to fight March Madness’…Herald launches campaign against Warriors raw deal,’’’ association spokesman, Xolisani Gwesela, said in a statement.  ‘’The article alleges that ZIFA is sitting on its laurels, in failing to call for the postponement of the March 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers, due to the non-availability of some of our Europe-based stars. “Whilst it is not ZIFA’s business to publish to the media, every minute detail regarding our engagement with our stakeholders, it is unfair for The Herald, in our opinion, to make such outrageous claims. “We communicate to CAF directly on issues that affect us, and recently we engaged them, to no avail, regarding the change of kick off time for the Zimbabwe vs Zambia AFCON qualifier match from 9pm to 3pm. “The Herald, like any stakeholder, is free to hold its campaign, in support of national teams using its own channels, but it is improper to try to force ZIFA on that route. “We all want the same as Zimbabweans but, depending with our workstations in life, we may use different methods. It is unacceptable for one stakeholder to try force the other into using their own channel. “We use professional mechanisms available to us and it is disturbing that The Herald never contacted the Association to find out their position and game plan with respect to this. “Sadly, they chose to use an unfortunate situation to hit out on ZIFA.’’ The association said this was a time for a united front, rather than a divided one, to deal with the challenges the Warriors face. “We really need to unite for our country instead of casting unguarded aspersions at every potential opportunity,’’ Gwesela said in the statement. “ZIFA is a football institution and not a media house, therefore, we have to communicate with respect to organisations which we are affiliated to. “Stakeholders are free to push their agenda but should never drag ZIFA into such campaigns. We have proper channels through which we air our views. “ZIFA respects the media, and acknowledges its invaluable role, but will never allow that relationship to external micromanagement of the Association. “We need our team to play with the strongest possible squad, but we also respect rules set by several authorities to combat the spread of Covid-19. “The Association is fully aware of its obligations and will never abdicate from its responsibilities.’’ What Others Said: Spencer Manguwa “If the playing level is not fair, why proceed with the games? FIFA has to make a call on this. Selective application of rules and statutes can never be allowed, let alone be tolerated.’’ Forward Nyanyiwa “@patricemotsepe1, please make a bold move, postpone the March AFCON games. Playing field not level, no to March Madness, the Kinshasa wounds are still raw to this day, 0-5 was avoidable had we taken a full-strength team, then.’’ Simba Mugadza “I remember the trend so well, especially the debacle in the DRC where Mercedes Sibanda tried his best to lead a scared and dispirited makeshift side.’’