The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter METHOD MWANJALI, the former Zimbabwe captain, has brought the curtain down on his glittering football career to concentrate on coaching. The 38-year-old had planned to have a swansong season, last year, in the colours of his beloved CAPS United. However, the entire domestic football season was washed away by the Covid-19 pandemic. Mwanjali, who captained the Warriors to the 2009 COSAFA triumph at home, last kicked a ball in October 2019, in a league match against his former club Hwange, at the National Sports Stadium. At that point, he was the inspirational figure behind the Green Machine’s strong quest for the league title, leading his men with aplomb, and making a mockery of his age. However, CAPS United were never the same, after his injury, and without their leader, they lost their way, eventually finishing in third place. The Harare giants were overtaken by eventual champions, FC Platinum, and Chicken Inn. The utility man, who introduced himself in the world of professional football in 2002 with Hwange, turned out for such clubs like Shabanie, Mamelodi Sundowns and Mpumalanga Black Aces in South Africa, as well as Tanzania giants Simba SC. His second flirtation with Makepekepe ended in June last year, when his deal expired, but coach, Darlington Dodo, had told the media Mwanjali would play on. However, Mwanjali, one of the most talented players of his generation, who could play both in midfield and in attack, yesterday told The Herald, he has called time on his playing career. He won’t leave Makepekepe, though, as he has been drafted into the club’s technical team. “I would have wanted to leave my playing career on a high note. I wanted, at least, one more season but Covid-19 has made sure that wouldn’t happen,” said Mwanjali. “Football is a beautiful game and no one wants to retire from playing. “But, that’s inevitable. There is a time for everything. I have been playing at the highest level for the past 19 years. “I would have wanted to play on, and on, but this is the time to hang up my playing boots. “I was hoping to bid farewell to the fans last year. “The fans make football and they are the major drivers to success stories written by players. “So, I wanted to say goodbye, in a decent manner, but Covid-19 wouldn’t allow me to do that. “I wanted a run last year, especially given that I wouldn’t complete the 2019 season, due to injury.” Mwanjali, who in 2019 was already helping Dodo out, especially during training, said he was now venturing into full-time coaching. “I am not leaving CAPS United. I am only hanging my playing boots. I am now venturing into full-time coaching,’’ he said. “I am attached to the team and I look forward to a fruitful journey in my new role. “Football made me who I am today and I can’t contemplate a life without it. “This is why I have decided to pursue coaching, so that I remain part of the game I love the most.” Mwanjali has a D Coaching Licence, and a Sports Science Strength and Conditioning Level 1 certificate from South Africa, as well as a ZIFA Level 2 certificate. He is one of the several coaches awaiting the return of CAF courses in the country. The courses were last held in the country, over three years ago, with ZIFA technical director, Wilson Mutekede, saying the return of the courses, to this country, could be imminent. Other countries, including Botswana and Gambia, have since started rolling out CAF courses. Mwanjali joins another legend of the game, Clement Matawu, who officially announced his retirement, last year. The 2006 Soccer Star of the Year, who made his name playing for 2010 league champions Motor Action, has been turning out for Chicken Inn in the last couple of years. And, armed with a Sports Science Degree from the National University of Science and Technology, Matawu has been retained by the Bulawayo side as their administrator.