The Herald Tadious Manyepo in FRANCISTOWN, Botswana IT wasn’t a perfect finish but its significance is worth its weight in gold. That he was making his debut, in Warriors colours, made the script even more interesting. The goal took the Warriors to their third consecutive appearance in the AFCON finals, after Zambia could only draw 3-3 against Algeria, late in the night. Chikwende’s name has only started to frequent football discourse, in the country recently, after he was signed by Tanzania giants Simba SC. His winding journey to stardom makes for some interesting reading but it’s a story for another day. The 27-year-old was only added into the team, weeks after the provisional squad, had already been named. And, even after that, he never thought he would score make the first XI, let alone scoring the goal, which would take his country to the Nations Cup finals. But, a combination of factors, including the absence of key players like Khama Billiat, Chikwende saw his name being thrust, into the starting team. “I didn’t panic but I told myself that I should just do what I have always done,” said Chikwende.  His first touch was a bit heavy and he seemed to be losing confidence. But once Kuda Mahachi was brought down, in the hosts’ half, and captain Knowledge Musona was preparing to take the set-piece, Chikwende embarked on a timely run, towards goal. As, the Botswana goalkeeper parried the ball back onto play, Chikwende met it with his head and, how he managed to generate power, while in motion, is the stuff that make heroes. The goal was met with wild celebrations, from the Zimbabwe bench, who knew it could just be what they needed, to qualify for the AFCON finals. “I don’t have any words to describe the feeling but I am happy that I managed to score,’’ he said. “What I felt, when my name was read out at the hotel that I was going to start the match, is something else. “I never saw myself lining up in national team colours, especially given the quality we have in that team. “And, to be in the team and score such an important goal at this big stage, is something to cherish. “In fact, this is the most important goal I have scored in my whole career. “What’s important, at the end of the day, is that is that the team has managed to qualify.”