The Herald . . . whereabouts unknown . . . accused of negligence in performance of duties Crime Reporter Police and the Special Anti-Corruption Unit (SACU) are still looking for Harare City Council’s acting finance director, Stanley Ndemera, on allegations of criminal inquiries relating to land allocation and sales in the city. His whereabouts remain unknown. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi confirmed they were still looking for the suspect. “The ZRP confirms that the Police Special Investigations Unit and Special Anti-Corruption Unit (SACU) are looking for Harare City Council’s acting finance director, Stanley Ndemera, in connection with criminal inquiries relating to land allocation and sales in the city. “The suspect is on the run,” he said. The latest developments come after Harare City Council acting chamber secretary, Charles Usaviwevu Kandemiri, appeared in court last week facing allegations of parcelling out stands without following due procedure. Kandemiri was facing criminal abuse of office charges when he appeared before Harare magistrate Mr Stanford Mambanje. He was granted $20 000 bail. As part of his bail conditions, Kandemiri was ordered to report once every Friday at Mabelreign Police Station and not to interfere with witnesses. He was also ordered to surrender his passport to the clerk of courts and to continue residing at his given address. In November 2019, there were reports that council was investigating allegations of corruption, including fraudulent payments, against Ndemera and water finance manager, Mabhena Moyo. According to minutes of the audit committee, it was recommended that Ndemera and Moyo be held accountable for negligence in the performance of their duties. “Ndemera and Moyo are to be held accountable for negligence in the performance of their duties when they authorised two internal transfers emanating from colour photo amounting to $11 804 and $16 349.” The minutes show that the two allegedly authorised the release of $7 750,08 to one Tungwarara, including a cheque of an undisclosed amount in the name of Davis Granite for the supply of quarry dust. In October 2019, Ndemera was also embroiled in a land scam, amid allegations of ‘double dipping’ after he allegedly tried to sell a piece of land located at Stand 413340, Corner Sam Nujoma and Cork Road in Belgravia, to the National Oil Infrastructure Company.