The Herald BOTSWANA will be without the attacking duo of Tumisang Orebonye and Kabelo Seakanyeng, for their crunch AFCON qualifier against Zimbabwe, in Francistown, this evening. The duo, who play for Moroccan side Olympique de Khourigba, will also miss the final match in Algeria, next Monday. They were not cleared to leave their base, because of Covid-19 regulations. “Yes, it is unfortunate that the two Moroccan players will not make it, but that does not mean we should now despair,” Botswana Football Association spokesperson, Tumo Mpatane, revealed. Another absentee will be Mothusi “Mini’’ Cooper, who plays for Lusaka Dynamos, in Zambia, and is ineligible, after picking up a number of yellow cards. However, Mogakolodi “Tsotso’’ Ngele of the South African side Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila and Thatayaone Ditlhokwe who plays for SuperSport United, are available. The Minister of Youth Empowerment, Sport and Culture Development, Tumiso Rakgare, visited the squad to provide some motivation to them, ahead of today’s match. “If we qualify for AFCON, as players, you will be in a good position to showcase your talent at an international stage and stand a chance to secure contracts at more developed leagues,” he said. BFA president, MacLean Letshwiti, who is now a CAF executive member, MacLean Letshwiti, also visited the players and urged them to represent their country well. “You’re the diamonds of this country and we want you to shine bright,’’ he said. “As players, you must know that you are two matches away from becoming historians. “It will be your name embedded in Batswana’s hearts, as the second generation to qualify for AFCON finals.’’ Letshwiti is celebrating his elevation to become a member of the CAF executive committee. “My win is a victory for our country, the continent, and our entire football prospects. Botswana has been playing second fiddle for long, and it’s about time, we hold our own against the greatest in the world of sport, particularly football,” said Letshwiti. Zebras’ skipper, Kabelo Dambe, believes his team will hold their own against their neighbours. “On behalf of the players, we also want to congratulate you on your CAF executive committee appointment. We promise to win our next game, to continue all the celebrations for Botswana. ‘’We are honoured to see you here in camp and having lunch with us. ‘’The preparations have been going well and the boys have adjusted to the training methods and they are ready to fight for Botswana’s glory.’’ Assistant coach, Letang Kgwengwenyane, believes they have a strong side which can give the Warriors a good run. “Any player selected here will be ready, we are injury free and players are all determined to win,” said Kgwengwenyane. It has also been a trying time, for Botswana football, which is still mourning the death of former BFA president, Ishamel Bhamjee, who rose to become a FIFA executive committee member Bhamjee, who was also a former COSAFA president, was 77 when he died from Covid-19 complications. “Bhamjee has set the bar very far for any Motswana to achieve or even come close to his accolades, having started as a referee in football, he meticulously worked his way up the ladder to becoming the FA president, then COSAFA president and served both in CAF and FIFA executive roles,’’ said Letshwiti. “The life of Bhamjee is widely celebrated. His death has robbed us a true soldier. “Bhamjee together with Ashford Mamelodi set up structures at BFA and brought the late Ben Koufie to improve coaching education in Botswana. “It was through his vision that local football needed a technical expert to move forward.” — Sports Reporter/Mmegi/BFA 