The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter NEWLY-APPOINTED Lomagundi College sports director, Amos Ngwarati, believes the school still have the potential to produce top athletes. They produced the likes of former Dynamos striker, Farai Mupasiri, as well as cricket’s Ervine brothers, Sean and Craig. Ngwarati, a veteran bodybuilder, made history by becoming the first black sports director at the Chinhoyi-based college, at the beginning of January. Lomagundi is well known for its sporting talent. And, Ngwarati, a former Zimbabwe National Bodybuilding and Weightlifting Association secretary-general under the leadership of the late George Takundwa, says he is ready for the challenge. Growing up in Zimunya, in Mutare, Ngwarati never dreamt of becoming a sports director, and teacher, one day. He had a very promising career in hotel and catering, in Mutare, after completing his studies. “I think I am ready for the challenge and it is a decision I will never regret,’’ he said. ‘’I changed my profession due to the family influence, particularly my father, who nudged me gently towards teaching with my mother. “It is a great honour and privilege to be where I am today. “Sports directors who came before me, like Gary Fraser and the recently retired Johan Duvenage, are a hard act to follow and a huge challenge lies before me. “I am well supported by my school board, under Francois Kriel, and the college principal, Dean Seeliger, who himself is a sports major and his vision is to see us become a household name in Southern Africa. ‘’And, yes, we believe we can. “Our sports have seen a meteoric rise, in the last couple of years, and our rugby, hockey, swimming, football, cricket, basketball, athletics, tennis, volleyball and cross-country is alive and well. “This is a school that has produced legendary athletes and I believe we are going to produce more.’’ After his teacher training at Belvedere Technical Teachers College, and armed with a Diploma in Education majoring in Physical Education and English, Ngwarati was immediately snapped up by Marondera High, where he coached rugby, basketball, athletics and cricket. During that time, he met Chris Mhike, who is the current head at Heritage. Together, they managed to assemble a rugby squad that went toe-to-toe with established rugby powerhouses like Lomagundi College and Hillcrest College, among others, chalking up some impressive wins, in the process. He left Marondera High, and had a brief stint at Lewisam School in Chisipite, before joining Lusitania Portuguese School in Greendale, where he coached swimming, basketball, athletics and hockey, among many other sports. In 2008, Ngwarati relocated to his Chinhoyi base, to join Lomagundi College, and many were shocked by his decision as he was flying high in the bodybuilding world. He was the secretary-general, and had become the face of bodybuilding on television, and radio. He was also a line judge, and master of ceremonies at Mr Zimbabwe and Iron Man contests, for 15 years.