The Herald Herald Reporter
The country’s biggest integrated media house, Zimpapers, yesterday received personal protective equipment from Nyaradzo Group to help protect employees from Covid-19. The personal protective equipment was handed over to Zimpapers chief executive Mr Pikirayi Deketeke at Herald House. Mr Deketeke thanked Nyaradzo, adding that everyone had a responsibility to play in combating the pandemic. “We really appreciate the gesture and as you said, it is the responsibility of every Zimbabwean, corporates and individuals to ensure that we combat Covid-19. “On our part, we have done quite a lot and ensured that our frontline workers were vaccinated and following these, the rest of the management team and other workers have been going for vaccinations. “However, while this is going on, it does not mean we have to let our guard down in terms of personal protective equipment and social distancing. “We truly appreciate what you have given us so that our people continue to observe the WHO guidelines on Covid-19 and continue to mask up. Nyaradzo Group human resources executive Ms Kuda Chanakira said her organisation was happy to donate the PPE to Zimpapers and play a role in fighting the deadly pandemic. “On behalf of Nyaradzo Group, I would like to take this opportunity to express our sincere gratitude to you for providing this platform to lend our voice to the ongoing effort to fight Covid-19. “Our business experience and observation of various stakeholders has shown us that employees are the most vulnerable individuals during this coronavirus pandemic. Healthy employees ensure that any business continues to operate as a going concern,” she said. She commended the Government for sourcing Covid-19 vaccinations which would go a long way in fighting the pandemic. “A healthy employee is not only good for business continuity, but society at large stands to benefit when the nation has a healthy labour force. A number of employees have dependants or siblings who largely depend on them for survival. As such, it is every employee’s desire to stay healthy.”