The Herald Senior Arts Reporter Sungura musician Panganayi Hare, known in music circles as Mukoma Panga, is confident that his latest album “Pfimbi Yegudo” which will be launched tonight on Radio Zimbabwe will silence his critics and grow his career. The nine-track album carries beautiful productions, namely Cheu Cheu, Dai Ndagona, Kuchera Tsime, Kudakwashe, Uri Wangu, Panganai Reggae Mix, Dai Ndagona instrumental, Kudakwashe instrumental and Cheu Cheu instrumental. Mukoma Panga, who is also a lawyer, said music fans were in for a real treat. “We decided to start the year with a bang and this new album is a clear demonstration of our clarity of intent. We are in this game to stay and our investment in this new album goes a long way in cementing our position.” The Radio Zimbabwe hosted album launch will start at 8:30pm, anchored by DJ Edias “Mafaiti” Sibanda and lucky fans will have an opportunity to win some give-aways. “We felt there is no better way to celebrate the new production than to do it with our fans,” said Mukoma Panga. “They will not only get to hear the new album live on radio, but also stand to win some giveaways. “The album is rich in lyrics and arrangement and we are super excited about it.” Mukoma Panga, who is also a seasoned music promoter, said the local arts industry had vast potential and he was hopeful that beyond the Covid-19 limitations, a lot of positives will be achieved. “I believe in the potential of the local arts industry and I am happy to be playing my part in growing this sector and preserving the Sungura genre,” he said. “Covid-19 has hampered our progress, but we must not be deterred. We have a lot of new projects lined up and we hope to go all out.” Beyond the radio launch, Mukoma Panga hinted on a private launch with strict adherence to Covid-19 regulations at a venue to be advised. “All things being equal, we hope to have a small and private launch with strict adherence to Covid-19 regulations. This event will be a celebration of my life and the continued strides we are making in life and the industry. “We recently released the first-ever animated Sungura video which did very well and we hope to build on that success.” Mukoma Panga’s first album, “Mbuva Yehwiza”, a 2019 production, got Zimbabwe Music Awards (Zima) and National Arts Merit Awards (Nama) nominations. He has also professionalised his art and is working with a local public relations and brand management company, Esteem Communications, to scale up his reach and brand presence.