The Herald Crime Reporter Harare City Council’s acting finance director, Stanley Ndemera who is wanted by Police and the Special Anti-Corruption Unit (SACU) on allegations of criminal inquiries relating to land allocation and sales in the city is still on the run. His whereabouts are still not known and Police and SACU are still making efforts to track him down. Head of SACU, Mr Thabani Mpofu yesterday said they were still looking for Ndemera in connection with the case. He, however, could not divulge any other details for fearing of jeopardising investigations. This week, national police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi also confirmed that they were still looking for the suspect. “The ZRP confirms that the Police Special Investigations Unit and Special Anti-Corruption Unit (SACU) are looking for Harare City Council’s acting finance director, Stanley Ndemera in connection with criminal inquiries relating to land allocation and sales in the city. “The suspect is on the run,” he said. The latest developments also came after Harare City Council acting chamber secretary Charles Usaviwevu Kandemiri appeared in court last week facing allegations of parcelling out stands without following due procedure. Kandemiri was facing criminal abuse of duty charges when he appeared before Harare magistrate Mr Stanford Mambanje. He was freed on $20 000 bail. As part of his bail conditions, Kandemiri was ordered to report once every Friday at Mabelreign Police Station and not to interfere with witnesses. He was also ordered to surrender his passport to the clerk of courts and to continue residing at his given address. In November 2019, there were reports that city council had been investigating allegations of corruption, including fraudulent payments, against its Stanley Ndemera and Harare water finance manager Mabhena Moyo. According to an audit committee minutes, it was recommended that Ndemera and Moyo be held accountable for negligence in the performance of their duties. “Ndemera and Moyo are to be held accountable for negligence in the performance of their duties when they authorised two internal transfers emanating from colour photo amounting to $11 804 and $16 349.” According to the council committee minutes, the two were said to have authorised the release of $7 750,08 to one Tungwarara, including a cheque for an undisclosed amount in the name of Davis Granite for the supply of quarry dust. In October 2019, Ndemera was also embroiled in a land scam, amid allegations of double dipping after he tried to sell a piece of land located at Stand 413340, corner Sam Nujoma and Cork Road in Belgravia to the National Oil Infrastructure Company.