The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor DYSON “Jomo” Dzapasi, a UK-based football scout, has challenged Zimbabweans to come together and help both local and central Government in the renovation of football infrastructure. Dzapasi is a former scout, and development centres co-ordinator for English Premiership side, Leeds United Academy. He is also the founder of PYE football schools and talent identification projects in West Yorkshire, England. Touched by the sorry state of the football infrastructure in Zimbabwe, Dzapasi has embarked upon an ambitious drive to improve football facilities in this country. Gwanzura, where he used to watch his favourite childhood team Black Aces, is now choked by weeds and is in a dilapidated condition. The same applies to Bulawayo’s Luveve, whose current state makes it unfit for any form of football activity. Rufaro, the ceremonial home of football, itself is no better than other major stadia in the country and has surroundings that are in urgent need of refurbishment. Speaking to The Herald yesterday, from his base in England, Dzapasi called on all the stakeholders to put their heads together and find ways and means to build new stadiums or to renovate the existing ones. “The National Sports Stadium was condemned last year by the Confederation of African Football, for failing to meet required standards to host international football fixtures, something that embarrassed us all football-loving Zimbabweans. “Barbourfields, like other stadiums, have no bucket seats. “Football fans have accepted the abnormal ways to sit on concrete slabs, instead of plastic chairs found the world over, in good stadiums.” He said good sporting infrastructure plays a critical role in achieving excellence in the global arena of sports. “It contributes in raising top talented international sporting men and women of great repute, like former Manchester City and Auxerre player Benjani Mwaruwari, Peter Ndlovu of former Premiership side Coventry City, and the current crop of players like Marshall Munetsi at French club Reims, Marvelous Nakamba at Aston Villa and Tino Kadewere at French giants Lyon. “Football brings togetherness and sports analysts say a camaraderie is formed between strangers, when they support one team. “Football attracts people of a different race, tribe, colour, social class, etc to come together as they show their favourite team’s support,” Dzapasi said. ZIFA have no ownership of stadia, which belong to councils and, in the case of the National Sports Stadium, to the Government. Dzapasi says his mission was not to do a witch-hunt, and apportion blame for the country’s poor pitches, but to bring together Zimbabweans from the USA, UK, Australia, Canada and South Africa, and those at home, to collectively address this situation. He said resources could be secured from crowd-funding, raising charity finance from individuals, local corporates and international organisations. “Our pitches need new surfaces, renovated dressing rooms and toilets, floodlights, paved and well-looked-after stadium surroundings, and ensure we meet world-class standards. “Zimbabweans we need to stop the blame culture and start to work together to make our country a better place.” Dzapasi said Alexander “Cool Ruler” Maseko, a former Zimbabwe and Highlanders defence kingpin, welcomed his initiative. Maseko said he is prepared to be part of such an initiative and is ready to offer his services voluntarily. “Ephraim Chawanda, a former Warriors captain and Zimbabwe Saints player, is also thrilled by this move and has availed himself in any capacity, to assist in helping in the renovations of the stadiums, and mobilising resources. “Another former football player, Davis Mbidzo of Black Aces, a civil engineer by profession, is also available to offer advice and his services to help in rebuilding Zimbabwe’s football infrastructure. “Several corporate executives in the private sector have shown their interest in offering help to the cause,” said Dzapasi. He is the brother of former Black Aces and Chapungu United midfielder Brighton Dzapasi.