The Herald Collin Matiza
Sports Editor
PROMISING Zimbabwean player, Tawanda Maswanhise, has hit a purple patch with the Under-18 team of English Premiership side Leicester City. Maswanhise helped the Foxes’ Under-18 side to reach the fifth round of the FA Youth Cup, with a 2-1 extra-time victory over Exeter City, at St James Park last week. The England-born midfielder is the son of former top Zimbabwean sprinter, Jeffrey Maswanhise, who represented the country at the then All-Africa Games, and the Commonwealth Games, between 1998 and 2002. Tawanda provided the two assists, for the goals, which propelled the Foxes into the fifth round, of the FA Youth Cup. The game went into extra-time, for the third time in four ties for Exeter, but in the 98th minute, the English Premier League side took the lead. Tawanda’s cross from the left-wing found Wanya Madivadua at the far post and he nodded home from close-range, despite the best efforts of ‘keeper Jack Arthur. The Grecians youngsters rallied again and levelled the scores, four minutes later, when Micheal Lilley powered the ball past the ‘keeper. He should have put them ahead, on the stroke of half-time, after Jack Veale slid him through, but fired straight at Kelechi Chibueze. And, that cost the Grecians as, at the start of the second period of extra-time, the Foxes regained the lead. Tawanda’s cross was floated across the box and Kian Pennant was there to head home the winner. It ended the Grecians’ youngsters’ dream of reaching Round 5 of the FA Youth Cup, for the first time in their history, but they were more than a match for their more illustrious opponents. Leicester City have now beaten Sheffield Wednesday and Exeter City en route to the fifth round. Speaking to The Herald, from his base in Leicester, Tawanda’s father, Jeffrey, said his son was delighted after his team’s success. They will now face either Manchester United or Liverpool. “Tawanda is really playing some good football this season and he was the toast of the day for Leicester City’s Under-18 side,’’ he said. “Now they are going to face either Manchester United or Liverpool in the fifth round and, if they manage to pull through, they will proceed to the quarter-finals where they will face either West Ham United or Arsenal, for a place in the semi-finals. “This is quite an exciting time for Tawanda, and his teammates in the Leicester City Under-18 side.’’ As for his son’s future, as an international footballer, he said the doors were still wide open for him to decide whether to turn up for Zimbabwe or England. “He is still developing as a player and I think he’s being nurtured well at Leicester City and the future looks really bright for him.