The Herald Leicester City          3 – 1     Manchester united West ham United  3 – 3     Arsenal Chelsea                   2 – 0     Sheffield United London. —Leicester City reached their first FA Cup semi-final for 39 years with a fully deserved win over Manchester United at the King Power Stadium. Brendan Rodgers’ side will face Southampton at Wembley with Chelsea and Manchester City meeting in the other semi-final. Leicester, who lost to eventual winners Tottenham in the 1982 semi-final, were the more vibrant and positive team against off-colour United as manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer once again tasted defeat in the latter stages of a cup competition, his ploy of resting the likes of Bruno Fernandes and Luke Shaw failing to produce the desired result. The Foxes’ hero was in-form striker Kelechi Iheanacho, who struck twice and now has nine goals in nine games. He took advantage of Fred’s awful backpass to round Dean Henderson to score in the 24th minute after the hapless Brazilian was played into trouble by captain Harry Maguire. Mason Greenwood crowned a crisp United move to equalise before half-time but Youri Tielemans restored Leicester City’s lead with a fine low shot seven minutes after the break before Iheanacho took advantage of shocking marking at a free-kick to head in Leicester’s third after 78 minutes. Injuries have robbed Leicester of the creative edge provided by James Maddison and Harvey Barnes, as well as the defensive excellence of James Justin, but they still had too much for miserable Manchester United here. And it was fitting that the two players who got the goals to secure that precious semi-final place, and only their second win over United in 23 years, were Iheanacho and Tielemans – the Foxes’ two most influential performers. Iheanacho has had mixed fortunes since his £25m move from Manchester City in August 2017 but it is testimony to the player’s own attitude and persistence, alongside the patience and coaching of manager Rodgers, that he has re-emerged as such an influential figure. He has always had the natural scorer’s instinct but here he provided goals and link-up play while the cultured Belgian Tielemans was the architect of most good things. Leicester City will now face Southampton — the team they beat 9-0 at St Mary’s last season — but the prize at stake is now so enticing it is unlikely there will be a hint of complacency from Rodgers and his players. There could have been nerves when Jamie Vardy missed the sort of opportunity he normally gobbles up at 2-1 but there was no wavering in self-belief and Iheanacho’s second sealed the deal. Leicester are in a very favourable position in the Premier League’s top four and now have an FA Cup semi-final to look forward to in what is shaping up to be a potentially memorable season. Meanwhile Arsenal came from three goals down to rescue a point in a stunning game against London rivals West Ham in the Premier League. The Hammers raced into a three-goal lead at London Stadium through Jesse Lingard, Jarrod Bowen and Tomas Soucek, who touched in a Michail Antonio header. The visitors gave themselves hope when an Alexandre Lacazette effort went in off Soucek for an own goal just before half-time. West Ham defender Craig Dawson turned in Arsenal full-back Calum Chambers’ low cross for another own goal in the 61st minute. And Lacazette completed the comeback with a thumping header from Nicolas Pepe’s cross, before both sides had late chances to win the game. The result leaves the Hammers two points behind fourth-placed Chelsea in fifth, while Arsenal move above Aston Villa into ninth. Arsenal were second best in the first half and looked almost certain to lose further ground in the race for European places after a frantic opening. At 3-0 down, they looked a beaten side but Lacazette inspired Mikel Arteta’s side to a point, hitting a volley which took a deflection off Soucek for Arsenal’s opener. Lacazette saw his dinked attempt cleared off the line by Issa Diop seconds after the restart as the Gunners dominated in the second period. After Dawson turned in Chambers’ cross to further cut the deficit, the France striker rose highest to level the game late on. A defeat would have opened up a 10-point gap between the two sides and arguably end Arsenal’s hopes of qualifying for a European competition through a top-six finish. And while questions will be asked about their poor first-half performance, Arteta will take heart from his side’s superb reaction against a disciplined West Ham. While Eight-time winners Chelsea moved into the FA Cup semi-finals with a hard-fought home win against Sheffield United. The Blues, beaten finalists last season, went ahead in fortunate circumstances as Ben Chilwell’s low cross was steered into his own net by Blades midfielder Oliver Norwood. Christian Pulisic was twice denied by away goalkeeper Aaron Ramsdale and Callum Hudson-Odoi shot over as the hosts looked to finish off the game. David McGoldrick wasted a glorious chance to equalise as he sent a close-range diving header wide following John Lundstram’s right-wing cross, before home goalkeeper Kepa Arrizabalaga saved from Oliver McBurnie. With Sheffield United pushing for a goal to take it into extra time, Chelsea broke in injury time and Hakim Ziyech scored their second with a low strike to take them into the last four for the fourth time in five seasons. The semi-finals will take place at Wembley over the weekend of 17-18 April and the draw will be shown live on BBC One – during half-time of Sunday’s quarter-final between Leicester City and Manchester United (kick-off 17:00 GMT). Blues back to Wembley Chelsea lost 2-1 to Arsenal in the 2020 final in August – as Frank Lampard failed to win a trophy in his season and a half in charge. His last game as manager was the 3-1 fourth-round victory over Luton in January and new boss Thomas Tuchel has steered them to wins over Barnsley and Sheffield United to send them back to Wembley. This victory continues their fantastic record under the German, who is yet to lose in his 14 games, has lifted them from ninth to fourth in the Premier League and also taken them into the Champions League quarter-finals. Before the game at Stamford Bridge, Chelsea had caused confusion by publishing the wrong team on their Twitter account. When they corrected it, it showed they had made nine changes from the side that began Wednesday’s 2-0 win over Atletico Madrid as a number of squad players were given the chance to impress Tuchel. They went ahead in the 24th minute when the unfortunate Norwood steered the ball into his own goal from Chilwell’s cross and were only denied a second when Pulisic’s shot was blocked by Ramsdale. Pulisic, starting for only the third time under Tuchel, almost scored in the early stages of the second half when he superbly dribbled past two Blades defenders but was denied by Ramsdale, before firing the rebound over from a tight angle. Chelsea then had to show their defensive strength for a spell in the second half but Ziyech scored for the second game in a row to seal the victory late on. Blades battle hard, but cannot breach Chelsea defence For Sheffield United this was their last chance to salvage something from a miserable season, in which they have languished at the bottom of the Premier League. They are 14 points from safety with only nine league games remaining. After finishing ninth in 2019-20, the Blades have won only seven matches in all competitions in 2020-21, with former boss Chris Wilder, who had taken them up from League One to the top flight, leaving the club by mutual consent earlier this month. This was only Paul Heckingbottom’s second game in caretaker charge following Wilder’s departure and the Blades had been thrashed 5-0 at Leicester a week ago in his first. Heckingbottom, without defender Chris Basham and striker Billy Sharp because of injuries, saw his side put in a hard-working performance, but once again their lack of cutting edge up front was shown. McGoldrick, back in the side after missing the Leicester loss with a knee injury, had chances at the start and end of the first half but could only shoot straight at home goalkeeper Arrizabalaga on both occasions. The Blades, who have scored the fewest number of goals in the Premier League with 16 in 29 games, should have equalised when McGoldrick was free but could only send a diving header wide from Lundstram’s cross. McBurnie was also denied as Sheffield United could not breach a Chelsea defence that has now conceded only twice in almost two months under Tuchel, with the hosts keeping their seventh successive clean sheet in all competitions. — BBC.