The Herald Social media has brought more harm than good especially when the issue of relationship formulation and being part of a social group is concerned Social media is a form of indirect communication that can be done through the use of different online or virtual platforms such as what’s App, instagram, Facebook, Snapchat etc. Even though the phenomenon aims at connecting more people and make them stay up-to-date young people have been left dumb-founded due to the implications of social media. Among the negative impacts of social media in interpersonal relationships the most destructive is social alienation, this is a high degree of isolation and distance keeping among youth since they spend most of their attention into the virtual life that they often tend to invest less energy in their immediate present. This leads to weakening of social ties, loss of ability to interact and engage oneself in that interaction. Social media has bought a twist of change in the concept of friendship, young people are now comparing themselves with others which often makes one to feel like a failure leading to depression or leading one to be involved in certain activities that are not appropriate. Social media has not only impacts the interpersonal relationship but also character of users, social media is making youths impatient and anxious they wake up in the middle of the night just to check their phones because they fear missing out something that is happening on social platforms as if the information will not be available the next day. “Any tool is a weapon if not held right “ said Ani Di Franco, social media is to be treated as a tool for men rather letting man be a tool for it. A lot of youths now days no longer have time to think or plan about their tomorrow because they spend much of their time on social media. Due to social media our own culture is no longer of value and has negatively impacts interpersonal relationships youths no longer have that time to visit their auntie and uncles in in order to be taught about adulthood  they are now preferring to Google the stuff  there by affecting relationships because there would be no connection among aunties and their nieces. However, it must be asserted that instead of bringing people together social media can instead create a distance among them although people are becoming more social with the use of social media there has been an inevitable shift in our ways of communication more and more online interaction has led to reduced to face-to-face interaction.