The Herald ABU DHABI. — Afghanistan all-rounder Mohammad Nabi said winning the T20 series against Zimbabwe is the perfect build-up towards this year’s T20 World Cup. The Asian side is pregnant with some exciting young prospects. Nabi’s all-round display — 40-run cameo off 15 and 2 for 20 in three overs, following Karim Janat’s explosive half-century set up Afghanistan’s series-clinching 45-run victory in the second T20I. The likes of Rahmunallah Gurbaz, Karim Janat and Usman Ghani have evolved into becoming the pillars of Afghanistan’s T20 batting with other proven performers like Nabi playing around them with lesser burden on their shoulders. “Every series is important for Afghanistan and wining this series was very important and I feel it is really good preparation for the World Cup as well,” Nabi said. “We have given chances to youngsters and we are looking forward to these youngsters (developing further) and hopefully we will have a good side in the World Cup.” Nabi added that playing in Abu Dhabi will also help their bowling unit grow given the surface offers no significant help thereby necessitating new and different plans to contain opposition. “The wicket is not suitable for the bowling most of the time when we are playing at Abu Dhabi ground. “Most of the time it is a batting wicket. We are trying different variations all the time as sometimes you are trying to skid the ball sometimes you are trying top-spin and sometimes you are trying slower ones,” he said. The veteran all-rounder underscored the importance of playing in different franchise leagues around the globe that helped him develop as a cricketer, lessons he is now sharing with his teammates “Franchise cricket is helping a lot as there are quality bowlers and batsmen and when we came back to the national side we take that experience and bring it here and share that experience for with the youngster as well and it help during the game. “Most of the time I am friendly with the youngsters in the dressing room and as I am friendly with then they share their problems and ask me easily regarding their batting and bowling and I share my experience with them and I really enjoy talking with the youngsters.” — Cricbuzz