The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — The South Africa PSL’s decision to not allow journalists at stadia is not only affecting media houses, but also other important stakeholders in the game. Despite South African cricket and rugby allowing journalists to cover their activities at their playing venues, the PSL have made them no-go areas and barricaded stadia to deny journalists entry to do their jobs. The PSL have not allowed journalists entry at stadia, for both league and cup matches, since the country went into Level 5 lockdown due to Covid-19 in March last year. Most journalists now rely on television to do match reports during PSL games while access to players and coaches is still highly unproductive using online portals for various reasons. Stadium announcer, Peter Mashata, is also lamenting the situation of not allowing important stakeholders in the game entry at the stadia, despite the country now being on Level 1. “The situation is bad and some people rely on PSL games to put food on top of the table for their families, and I also understand many freelancers have lost jobs because of the situation,” Mashata told KickOff.com. “The role of stadium announcer is very important during the match. It’s not only about announcing the starting line-up but also important information like in case there is a fire at the stadium.” Meanwhile, Zimbabwean defender, Carlington Nyadombo, has moved on to a new job at Steenberg United, linking up with fellow countryman and former Kaizer Chiefs winger, Edmore Chirambadare. Nyadombo recently told KickOff.com about his money troubles at Tshakhum Tsha Madzivhandila, where he went for six months without pay. After finding his way out of the cage at TTM, Nyadombo has agreed terms with the GladAfrica Championship club, and will captain the team, for the rest of the season. The veteran defender is vastly experienced having played for AmaZulu, Polokwane City, Royal Eagles and TTM. Also at Steenberg is Chirambadare, who was once on the books of Chiefs and was most recently with Royal AM. — KickOff.com