The Herald Herald Reporter Zimbabweans should continue to humble themselves before God in prayer for the country to enjoy blessings such as good harvests, in an environment of peace. This was said by President Mnangagwa yesterday, who declared today as the President’s Special National Day of Thanksgiving. He invited compatriots at home and abroad, to a special National Thanksgiving Service from 10am to 1pm whose main event will be at State House in Harare today. “Last winter, I invited the nation to join me and religious leaders from all denominations whom I hosted at State House as we humbled ourselves before God in prayer and observance of a National Day of Fasting. “Since then, we have as a nation, through divine intervention and God-given wisdom, witnessed our fortunes take an undeniable turn for the better. “Although we mourn every life lost through the Covid-19 pandemic, we are thankful for the continued mercies, grace and favour which the Almighty God has bestowed upon our great nation,” said the President. He added: “Our country has been blessed this agricultural season with abundant rains from which a bumper harvest is expected. “Furthermore, we continue to enjoy an atmosphere of peace, unity and harmony, as well as visible rewards in our efforts to rebuild, modernise and industrialise our country. “For these and other blessings showered upon our nation, I declare Friday, March 26, 2021, as President’s Special National Day of Thanksgiving.” President Mnangagwa said all Zimbabweans were free to participate through virtual platforms, including following the proceedings on ZBC-TV, Zimpapers Television Network (ZTN) and national and radio stations. Quoting from the scriptures, the President said: “As our nation comes together before God in thanksgiving, I am inspired by the following verses from the Book of Daniel,Chapter 4: Verses 2 -3 which read; “It is my pleasure to tell you about the miraculous signs and wonders that the Most High God has performed for (us). How great are His signs! How mighty are His wonders! His kingdom is an eternal kingdom! His dominion endures from generation to generation.”