The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Legendary striker Wilfred “Silver Fox” Mugeyi believes stress might be one of the reasons Kaizer Chiefs star, Khama Billiat, is forever injured. The 30-year-old was forced to pull out of the Warriors squad which qualified for the 2021 AFCON finals, due to the bad injury he suffered against Stellenbosch in January. Mugeyi thinks personal issues might be one of the reasons Billiat is injury-prone. “You know, to be honest, I’m also surprised because if you look when he played for Ajax (Cape Town), when we had Khama at Ajax, Khama was never injured,’’ Mugeyi told KickOff.com. “I don’t recall Khama missing a game. And we had three, four years with him. “At Sundowns, yes, there was a time when he broke his metatarsal. I think he was out for almost three months, or something like that. “Then, from there, he played without a lot of injuries. “But, when he went to Chiefs, he played two games and one month he’s out. He comes back, three games . . . two months he’s out. “So, I don’t really know what’s the problem. As I just said, we signed him (at Ajax) as a 16-year-old. He never missed a game. “Sometimes, it might be a stress. You understand when you play under stress . . .  he might have problems at home, then you are bound to get injuries because your mind is not focused. “You are thinking about something else while you are doing something else. Then you are prone to injuries. “You never know, it might be the case, stress at home.’’ Mugeyi said a lot could be happening in Billiat’s life. “Even in life, in general, he might have problems that he keeps to himself and is not telling people, you see,’’ said the Silver Fox. “I think the head coach, or the management, need to sit down with him and ask him if he’s got any problems and try to help the boy. “Probably, he might have big problems at home and then he just keeps quiet. I mean he still has a lot to offer. “He has got a lot of energy. “And his body structure, I mean, he’s not a person who gets fat when he doesn’t train. That’s a good thing with Khama. “So, there’s nothing that’s going to hamper him when it comes to performance. The injuries are killing him. “So, if they can just sort out the injury thing, they can get a lot from him.”— KickOff.com