The Herald Business Reporter Standard Chartered Zimbabwe has contributed US$1 million to the International Rescue Committee (IRC) and Oxfam for programmes providing emergency relief to communities impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. At least US$500 000 went to the IRC to provide healthcare supplies, infection prevention and control measures, and risk communication to communities, while US$508 000 has been donated to Oxfam for the provision of emergency food aid to vulnerable communities. Said Standard Chartered Bank Zimbabwe board chairman Lovemore Manatsa: “Standard Chartered in Zimbabwe is proud to contribute to the IRC and Oxfam programmes that reach the most vulnerable people in our communities. By working with these organisations, we are able to support the delivery of rapid and effective emergency relief that aims to address some of the key challenges created by the Covid-19 pandemic.” Country director, International Rescue Committee Mr Zvidzai Maburutse said: “Nearly a year on from the beginning of the global Covid-19 pandemic, Zimbabwe is battling a spike in Covid-19 cases and deaths, fears of a new variant, and the devastation that tropical Cyclone Eloise has caused in recent weeks to Covid-19 mitigation and containment measures. This ‘triple threat’ is endangering the lives of Zimbabwe’s population. “The IRC in Zimbabwe is working not only to prevent and respond to the spread of coronavirus within vulnerable communities, but to meet our clients’ other immediate needs. Critical support from partners like Standard Chartered enables the IRC to continue its life-saving work and ensure the safety of our staff.” Oxfam country director in Zimbabwe Mirjam van Dorssen, said the organisation was pleased with its partnership with Standard Chartered Bank. “We are proud to be in this partnership with Standard Chartered Bank as it has enabled us to fight hunger among vulnerable Zimbabweans who have been affected by droughts and the Covid-19 pandemic. Ensuring access to food is a key aspect of the support provided by SCB as the project provides poor communities with the power to buy food on a need basis and decrease vulnerability to future shocks.”