The Herald Tafara Mapurisa I would like to acknowledge that I have been granted the ED-UNZA scholarship to study at the University of Zambia. Firstly, I would like to thank the ED-UNZA Scholarship Trustees, with special mention going to the founder and chairperson His Excellency President Mnangagwa. I would like to thank him for the chance granted to me to study Computer Sciences with a free state of mind, without any worry on how my food, accommodation and tuition fees will be met. With all this catered for, I hope and trust that it will help me to excel in my academics and brighten my future. I feel honoured to have been granted this opportunity and scholarship. With these words I once again thank the ED-UNZA trust members and sponsors for all the support and brightening the future of my fellow Zimbabweans. Hilda Pangeti I was thrilled to learn of my selection. I deeply appreciate your support. I am honoured to be one of the recipients of this scholarship. My educational pursuits would not be possible without generous support from scholarship sponsors like your organisation. Thank you for enabling this opportunity. Major gratitude to the President and all who have worked hand in glove with him to make only what I could have thought of as a dream to come true. My life-long dream of attending Law School is moving forward with the best services at hand through this generous scholarship. Thank you personally for the generosity. Without scholarship patrons willing to support students such as myself would not be able to pursue their dreams .Thank you once again for moving mountains for us . Natasha Gwatidzo I would like to express my sincere gratitude to President Mnangagwa, other members of the Board of Trustees and benefactors of the ED-UNZA scholarship programme. It is quite an honour to be found as one of the beneficiaries of this life changing program. The scholarship has been a blessing, it is one which provides its beneficiaries with not only 100 percent tuition fee and accommodation, but also includes food, clothing and bedding. I am forever grateful to our sponsors. They managed to meet all my needs from the day I walked into the university till the day I graduate and leave the institution. I have the privilege to learn at one of the best universities in Africa. New doors of success have been opened in my life, dreams that had been washed away came back as a reality because of the loving hearts of these trustees and benefactors. Just like what any parent would do for their child, the trustees and benefactors of this programme made sure I have a brighter future and for that I am forever grateful. I do not have much to give, but I would like to direct this verse to you our sponsors, Numbers 6 vs 24-25, “May the Lord bless you and keep you. May he make his face to shine upon you and may be gracious to you. The lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace. Amen!” Nomsa Ncube As a young girl who would not think that her future would be as promising as it is today, I am gratified for this opportunity offered to me by President Mnangagwa out of love for his children and the interests of the nation at large. Being part of this pioneer group is more of a blessing as well as a privilege as I am given the platform to pursue my dreams and obtaining a career in the future, which I am thankful for. We are receiving quite good services and quality education here in Zambia. As a beneficiary of the ED-UNZA scholarship I will do my best and place all my focus towards education with the aim of achieving what I came here for using all the good services provided to me by the scholarship. Rachael Zvomuya It was always my wish to be a lawyer and all thanks to you President Mnangagwa, my dream came to reality. I am really thrilled and because of you, I am now breaking the glass ceiling and becoming a responsible Zimbabwean who represents others in life. As a person who became an orphan at the age of three, I never received father’s care. All thanks to you President Mnangagwa. Not only did I find a good President, but a good, loving and caring father that I never had. For this happiness and smile that you put in my life, I promise to devote my time to my studies. I will be a good ambassador of Zimbabwe in Zambia and promise to bring the best results home and make Zimbabwe proud. Simbarashe Muranduri Thank you ED-UNZA, my educational pursuits would not have been possible without your generous donation. I appreciate you President Mnangagwa for enabling me to reach my fullest personal and professional potential. I am glad to present to you the joy that I have from the scholarship you have offered to me. I was one of the poorest and desperate students with super intellectual capacity locked by financial constraints due to my orphanage status. But due to the mercy, good heart of our President, my academic challenges have been ironed out. I am happy more than words can say. Now I am living the life I never imagined. Decent accommodation, good food of choice, enough school stationery as well as good care, love and the best advice from the Ministry of Higher and Tertiary Education. I am deeply joyful and full of vision and excellent dreams instilled in me by President Mnangagwa through his special scholarship. Tafadzwa Toriro My sincere gratitude goes to His Excellency President Mnangagwa for making the E.D-UNZA Scholarship possible. I was thrilled to learn of my selection for this honour and deeply appreciate your support. You have lightened my financial burden. I am a freshman with a major, I hope to become a geologist upon graduating from The University of Zambia. The financial support you provided will be of great help to me and it will allow me to concentrate more on studies. I am proud of my President. May Jehovah give him many more years to come, filled with joy, health and prosperity. Thank you again for your generosity and support. I promise to work very hard and eventually give back to others, both as a teacher and possibly a scholarship to future students like myself. Nyasha Victoria Mushonga I am a freshman at the University of Zambia(UNZA) and a recipient of the ED-UNZA scholarship. I have always wanted to be a medical doctor and I am so happy to be paving my path in this field at one of the finest and best universities on the continent. Because of your generosity and support, my aspirations have been realised. My family and I will forever be grateful for the allaying of the financial burden experienced during my tertiary education. During all my undergraduate years as a Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery student, I will strive to be the best of anything I can be, from friends, students or in other curricular activities. I will strive to be at my best since my accommodation, tuition and even meals are being catered for. I am confident that the expertise and knowledge I will gain at UNZA will allow me to make a difference to the universe at large and leave a lasting legacy. Clyde Kasungasunge I am grateful for the scholarship accorded to me by President Mnangagwa. This great gesture will forever be cherished as it has catapulted me to greater heights. My life will never be the same again. I will certainly work hard to produce best results. The full scholarship bestowed upon me leaves me with no worry for tuitions fees, food, accommodation and stationery. I am also grateful for the laptop and tablet, which will facilitate the learning process in this modern world.