The Herald Senior Reporter
Arts practitioners are lobbying the Government for essential services status and prioritisation in the ongoing Covid-19 immunisation. This was brought to light by a policy recommendation document titled “The Arts Sector Through Covid-19 and Beyond” which was launched on Monday. The document meant to sustain the sector during the Covid-19 pandemic and in similar situations in the future came about after a series of virtual consultation spearheaded by renowned theatre practitioner Tafadzwa Muzondo. It comes at a time when practitioners were on a Covid-19 induced sabbatical in adherence to the national lockdown. Over 50 stakeholders from across the country representing various organisations and community groups participated and tasked a team to draft the document under the advisory of National Arts Council of Zimbabwe’s Nicholas Moyo, Culture Fund director Farai Mpfunya, legal practitioner Rumbidzai Venge and Let Them Trust’s Chido Msasiwa. The document suggests policy recommendations that include, “recognition of the arts sector as an essential service under lockdowns, prioritisation of arts sector professionals for Covid-19 immunization, budgetary provision for the set-up of a stimulus fund, and budgetary provision for monthly relief of artistes for the next three months”. Arts practitioners have also pledged their commitment in coming up with solutions to sustain the sector. “Voices from the sector acknowledge that while Covid-19 has had sector-wide impact, the arts and culture sector faces unique challenges that require tailor made solutions,” reads the document. “While this brief has called for policy interventions, the arts and culture practitioners themselves are prepared and committed to contribute to efforts towards sustainable solutions to the challenges confronting the sector. The Zimbabwean population currently requires and will continue to require the services of the cultural and creative industries from both an economic and socio-cultural viewpoint. “Left unsupported, the likelihood of migration of artistes and culture workers to careers in other sectors will likely be high, further widening the inequalities of opportunity in access to professional careers in culture.” Muzondo said they had since submitted the document to those in leadership positions, including the Minister of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation, Kirsty Coventry. “The brief is open to all interested stakeholders, but we are deliberately targeting the Minister Coventry, the permanent secretary in the Ministry of Arts Dr Thokozile Chitepo, director of Arts and Culture Dr Biggie Samwanda, the director of National Arts Council of Zimbabwe Nicholas Moyo, clerk of Parliament of Zimbabwe Kennedy Chokuda, chairperson of Ad-Hoc Inter-ministerial Task Force on Covid-19, Minister Muchinguri-Kashiri, chairperson of the Parliamentary Portfolio Committee on Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation Hon Mathias Tongofa and chairperson of the Parliamentary Portfolio Committee on Health and Child Care, Dr Ruth Mafoko Labode,” he said.