The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo
Senior Arts Reporter
Preparations for the second edition of the BossBabe Summit are at an advanced stage, organisers of the event have confirmed. The summit, which is held annually in March to celebrate women’s month, will see top local women sharing their stories. It will also appreciate women in arts, fashion, media, politics, corporate world, entrepreneurship and community building globally. This year’s event will be different because of the Covid-19 global pandemic in that it will be held virtually, streaming on social media from March 27 to 28. Running under the theme “She Evolved”, the speakers include local radio personality and television show presenter Rebecca Muchenje, Ruvheneko Parirenyatwa, fashion consultant Lee Madyara, businesswoman Fungai Mungoshi King and Cyrex Business Solutions manager Annabell Gakaka. It will also feature BancABC chief executive officer Lance Mambondiani as the keynote speaker, with other speakers from different countries,  including Amara Kyna Agbim,  the founder of The Nanny Academy in Nigeria, and United States licensed aesthetician Mabel Butler. In an interview, the brains behind the initiative, United States-based Zimbabwean Dr Rutendo Mudzamiri,  who is affectionately known as “Dr Ru Bossbae”, said everything was going according to the script. “We are excited as we have started the planning for this year’s edition and all the lady bosses I have engaged to share their dream have accepted the offer,” she said. “This year we are doing it virtually because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Fans of the summit will have to watch it on our social media page. Let me emphasize that the men too are invited to watch as they can learn new things.” Dr Ru chose the theme “She Evolved” because she wanted to celebrate all kinds of women in different fields as they are not only involved in developmental issues, but are also evolving. “The platform is for professional and progressive women intentionally working with supportive people to win in all areas of development. They will share their stories on how they had developed to be better women. “The reason why I brought the summit to Zimbabwe is that there are high-flying unheralded women, but unfortunately there are few platforms to celebrate them. We want to come together, inspire and motivate.” Dr Ru said she was inspired and encouraged by that other auspicious women in business, public service, politics, entertainment, and some Fortune 500 women were doing to celebrate and uplift each other. She was working on a surprise female performance during the interlude session. Last year, Dr Ru hosted 200 women who attended the event at the Ster Kinekor theatre, Sam Levy Village, before the lockdown. “Last year, we had transformative sessions that propelled women’s wholeness in areas such as business, health, mind, spirit, and physical with topics ranging from motherhood, thriving in challenging times, confidence, fitness, money, body imaging, business, health, mental health and leadership,” she said.