The Herald Business Reporter The Sunday Mail editor Victoria Ruzvidzo scooped the balanced coverage of women’s issues in the media award at the recently held Red Lipstick Annual Business Achievers Awards. Ruzvidzo’s award is in recognition of the crucial role she continues to play in bringing women’s issues particularly in business and finance into the limelight through the media. She was one of the 29 recipients of the awards hosted by the recently launched — The Red Lipstick Business Magazine, on March 8, which marked International Women’s Day that celebrates the achievements of women  in the economic, political, cultural and social spheres. Red Lipstick Revolution director, Dr Abigail Magwenzi, also awarded the men who have supported and patterned with them. The men in particular have been pillars of the organisation through the training, agricultural and mining opportunities being granted to women across the spectrum. “I congratulate all those who have won the awards and encourage men and women to continue the good work and be extra ordinary, we would like to build bridges between women in Zimbabwe and those in the Diaspora. In addition to this, we want the magazine to connect communities all over the world by inspiring ideas and igniting businesses,” said Dr Magwenzi. At the awards ceremony, Chivhu-based business woman, Nyasha Rimbi won the rural business woman of the year in land development. She was recognised for spearheading empowerment for women in Mashonaland East province through sweet potato project. Blessing Chimuti from Shurugwi won the rural business woman of the year in the farming category in recognition of her outstanding performance in the new “normal”. Ruzvidzo, Rimbi and Chimuti were among the Zimbabwean women and men who won the awards with some of them based in the United Kingdom, the United States, France, China, Dubai and Germany. Also present at the ceremony was Milicent Rutere ,the managing director of Kenyan organisation, Total Herbs International, who is a partner of the Red Lipstick Revolution.