The Herald SPAIN-BASED Zimbabwean goalkeeper, Martin Mapisa, believes the sky is the limit for him, despite enduring the worst phase of his life, following the death of his mother last year. The 22-year-old Zamora CF ‘keeper is drawing inspiration from South Africa’s Ronwen Williams, who rose through the ranks to become the Bafana Bafana first choice goalkeeper, when it was least expected. “I have faced so many challenges but I have just remained hopeful,’’ he said. “It’s obviously difficult to play in a country where everything is different from where you grew up. “But, I am motivated by other young goalkeepers, such as Ronwen Williams, who have made it, and rose through the ranks, to be their country’s best. “I also want to be like that.’’ Mapisa became the first goalkeeper, from Zimbabwe, to be signed by a Spanish club in 2018 from the Aces Youth Soccer Academy. The academy is also credited for producing the attacking pair of Knowledge Musona and Khama Billiat. Just like Musona and Billiat, Mapisa’s rise has been remarkable and he dedicates all the success to his late mother. “Everything I do, I shall always dedicate to her because she was with me when I started this journey. “I owe it to her. “Playing as the only African, in a team, has its own challenges but I am happy that I have so far managed to prove myself to be worth something. “I hope it remains that way,” he said. Mapisa featured in his club’s last seven matches, where he kept three cleans sheets, while the team leaped to the summit of the Spanish Segunda B. After losing his mother, he failed travel to Zimbabwe to mourn her, due to Covid-19 induced travelling restrictions. And while the death of his mother was a massive blow, he reckons his football journey has been a life-changing roller coaster. He is one of the few Zimbabweans, who have managed to forge a football career in Europe, without playing in the country’s domestic top-flight league. Over the years, Zimbabwe’s goalkeeper position has been changed from one goalie to another, and in recent times, between Baroka FC’s Elvis Chipezeze and Nkana’s Talbert Shumba. However, this time around, competition is likely to be stiff with Mapisa and United States-based, Tatenda Mkuruva, being included in the provisional squad for the AFCON qualifiers against Botswana and Zambia later this month. “It’s very difficult to select when you have quality goalkeepers like this. All of them have a good track record,’’ said Warriors coach, Zdravko Logarusic. “So, now, my hope is that they all make it to be part of the team when we convene for the AFCON qualifiers. “Martin has been doing well, just like Ariel and others. “Whoever will be chosen will surely do good for us.’’ Chipezeze was dropped and replaced by Highlanders’ Ariel Sibanda, who is arguably the best of the home-based crop. Among the four provisionally drafted shot-stoppers, Mapisa is the youngest, and the only uncapped player, but that has not stopped him from dreaming big. — PanAfricanFootball