The Herald Edmore Maziofa Youth Interactive Reporter Norton based teenager Austin Kaemba affectionately known as MC Doc in the suburb has joined the fight against Covid-19 through an awareness song titled “Ndapeka Twangu”. The 19-year-old singer said was distributing singles to his peers in Norton as they waited for school opening as part of the awareness campaign. He wants to work with health officials to disseminate information about the deadly virus. MC Doc revealed in an interview that he maximised his time in the lockdown to come up with the song and there was need for active information dissemination through music in the town since there are few musicians based there. “I used the opportunity to release a single which was inspired by societal settings. I want to market my song at school and hopefully with the help of relevant authorities it will go viral. “NdapekaTwangu”, which means I have packed my bags denotes that we are done with this situation and we should act fast,” he said. Although he started his musical career in 2017 and his single “Uptown Girl” was doing well on radio platforms and said will wait for things to be normal as he has some collaboration projects in pipeline. “The song talks about a young man who lives in the ghetto who eventually meets an uptown girl then he tries to show the girl the way he makes a living in the high density suburbs. “Uptown girl is a song that talks about love, commitment and togetherness. It shows that there are no boundaries when it comes to love,” added MC Doc The song had so many verses that he had he had planned to sing with a lot of his friends as he usually does but he changed the idea and altered the lyrics so as to accommodated as few people as possible in the studio in line with Covid-19 rules and regulations. The singer who said specialises in afro-fusion genre although likes Zimdancehall too said it was difficult out there for upcoming musicians to have their dreams recognised, especially this time of Covid-19, where there are no shows, for those on virtual platforms. MC Dos added that although musicians were embracing the virtual platforms, there was need to support artists with ideas on how to score big. He challenged seasoned musicians, promoters and upcoming singers to unite for the betterment of the industry, as he also shared his musical journey. “Music is my passion and it has not been a rosy road since I ventured into the market. “We need more platforms that can also expose the untamed talent, especially us upcoming musicians,” he said. MC Doc had intended to record a full album in collaboration with other local artists but was affected by the Covid-19 restrictions as it restricted movements.