The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter AS some of the country’s Tokyo Olympic Games hopefuls prepare to compete in a qualifying event in Italy, athletics coach Cephas Pasipamire has challenged them to rise to the occasion. The quartet of Munyaradzi Jari, Ngonidzashe Ncube, Isaac Mpofu and Fortunate Chidzivo are set to take part in the Siena Marathon in Italy on April 11. Pasipamire has been working with Ncube, Mpofu and Chidzivo while Jari was in Kenya as part of his preparations before returning home on Saturday. “I have told my athletes not to panic. We did a lot together. I know we had many challenges, races being cancelled but at last we have a race and it’s a chance they have to take seriously. “I am hopeful and confident they will pull through, all of them because we did everything in our capacity to ensure they are ready. Yes challenges have been there but that’s part of sport. Those challenges they make you stronger and looking at marathon that’s one of the things you need,” said Pasipamire. Jari, Ncube and Mpofu are seeking qualification for men’s marathon at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games to run from July 23 to August 8. The qualifying time is 2 hours 11 minutes 30 seconds while for women is 2 hours 29 minutes 30 seconds. Chidzivo is vying for qualification in the women’s marathon. She had a promising show at the World Half-marathon last year and the expectation is that she carries that same fighting spirit to Italy. “I like their attitude and determination. I urge them to work together as a team and push each other. Chidzivo is the only female going for this race but she knows what to do. We did it in Poland, she got the time we were targeting and I expect the same from her this time around,” said Pasipamire. Pasipamire noted that as competition gets closer, they have been focusing on conditioning and achieving specific times so that they are ready for the race. “We have reduced the workload so that we don’t exhaust the athletes. “We are focusing more on the times, so that they meet the qualifying times. The good thing is we now have access to the track at the National Sports Stadium’s B Arena, so it has been helpful. It gives us accuracy in terms of measurements and the times,” Pasipamire said. Other athletes that have been earmarked for qualification include South Africa-based Rutendo Nyahora. Nyahora represented the country at the 2016 Olympic Games in Brazil.