The Herald Ray Bande in Mutare The recent high rating of Sinopharm and Sinovac Covid-19 vaccines, by leading United States newspaper, the New York Times, must inspire community leaders into preaching positive messages about the vaccines and expedite uptake. This was said by Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services Minister Monica Mutsvangwa while addressing villagers in Manzununu village in Mutare South constituency yesterday. “Some of you might have seen the recent developments in United States of America where one of their leading newspapers, New York Times, did its research and published that the Sinopharm vaccine is rated the best among other 10 or so vaccines. “Sinovac was rated second best. This is in terms their side effects to recipients. “This should be a source inspiration for leaders in our communities to spread the correct message about vaccines. This is a matter of life and death. “We need to have our people get the correct information. After all, we have always had vaccines from birth so we should do the honourable thing and save lives,” said Minister Mutsvangwa. She bemoaned the negative messages about vaccines that have been peddled on various social media platforms. “We have seen people talking about what they do not know simply to discredit Government efforts in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. “Some have even gone to the extent of saying once vaccinated, one will start speaking the Chinese language. Some say they want to kill us. This is cheap politicking at a time we are aiming at saving lives,” she said. Minister Mutsvangwa applauded President Emmerson Mnangagwa for presenting solutions to every challenge the nation is facing starting with food production being boosted through the Pfumvudza programme, economic challenges being addressed as evidenced by currency stabilisation and the Covid-19 pandemic now being addressed through vaccines. She donated 80x 12.5kg bags of mealie-meal and 80 blankets to Kudavana Orphanage while the five desktop computers were donated to Manzununu Secondary School where she initially facilitated the installation of a solar power system. Both institutions are in Mutare South constituency. In her donation hand over speech at Kudavana Orphange in Musabayana Village, Minister Mutsvangwa said Government values education and more importantly in the Covid-19 era. “We are aware that children have not been going to school because of the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions. This actually made us aware of the importance of e-learning in our schools. “Government prioritises education and this is the reason we found it prudent to start the ball rolling in availing computers to schools in marginalised areas like Manzununu. “The five computers I am donating here might be a drop in the ocean but at least we have to start from somewhere. As we go on, we will certainly have more benefiting,” said Minister Mutsvangwa.