The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter
The 2021 National Art Merit Awards will this year be held virtually under the Covid-19 pandemic regulations and will run under the theme “Our Legacy, Our Pride”. The event, which will be beamed live on ZBC, will also be streamed on Zimpapers Television Network (ZTN) and the NAMA social media page, on March 27. The awards will honouring 40 arts legends and celebrate Zimbabwe’s 40th anniversary, as well as the 35 years of the National Arts Council (NAC)’s existence. Organisers of the show yesterday released a trailer of some of the performers for this year’s edition, which was warmly received by musicfans. Just like the Grammy’s, BET and MTV awards shows, it is essential to know who is performing and hosting such an event, but some local show organisers prefer to leave that as a surprise. Such a move affects the production, creativity and support, not only from fans, but the corporate world as well, who end up doubting the seriousness of the ceremony. The  NAMAs are equivalents to the Oscars, the prestigious American show which cover music, dance, theatre, and everyone now is expecting fireworks, with NAC raising the bar from last year’s edition where it brought South African-based Zimbabwean actor Leroy Gopal as the host of the show. Last year’s opening song was a remix of “Ngaibake” featuring Alick Macheso, Freeman, Ammara Brown and TiGonzi, which had the whole auditorium on its feet. What surprises are in store this year? Well, a few of the performers for the night have just been announced. According to the trailer, the list of performers includes Zimdancehall sensation Poptain, Nutty O, Anita Jaxson, Busi Ncube, ExQ, DJ Tamuka and Tammy Moyo. In an interview, NAMA executive producer, Napoelon Nyanhi, affectionately known as “Napstar” in the showbiz industry, said despite the Covid-19 pandemic  that has affected the entertainment industry, the show will go on as planned and it will be held virtually. “It is a total 100 percent no attendance, everything is virtual. NAMA is about positioning our artistes to be taken seriously in Africa and the world. We are, therefore, striving to keep on raising the bar of the ceremony so that it adds value to the profile of winning and performing artistes. “This year we have a different format, but we will still raise the bar. Lockdown or no lockdown, we will conquer.” Nyanhi said the show will be two-and -half hours long. “Rehearsals are taking place and we are trying to make sure everything is on point and in place, no glitches whatsoever. The show will be 2 hours 30 minutes sharp. What makes us different is our commitment to professionalism and ground-breaking creativity. “So many corporates have started to take us seriously by coming on board because they have seen the diligence in our approach.”