The Herald kwazulu. —AmaZulu Prime Minister, Prince Mangosuthu Buthulezi, has confirmed that the late King Goodwill Zwelithini — who passed away earlier last week — will be laid to rest in a private ceremony to be held at night, with only men in attendance. Buthulezi said that given how the King’s death reportedly came as a result of COVID-19 related complications, difficult decisions had to be made regarding his burial. Buthelezi was speaking at Zwelithini’s memorial service at KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace in Nongoma, KwaZulu-Natal (KZN), which is currently being held with addresses from a host of South Africa’s prominent political figures and religious leaders. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced last Friday that a special state funeral will be afforded to the fallen King, whom he described as a “much-loved, visionary monarch who made an important contribution to cultural identity, national unity and economic development in KwaZulu-Natal and through this, to the development of our country as a whole”. Buthelezi said that this offer was greatly appreciated, but that the occasion would instead be treated as a state memorial service. He said that it was the fallen King’s wish to be buried in a private ceremony at night surrounded by men he had chosen, and also insisted that the Royal Family had been faced with a difficult decision making process in the wake of Zwelithini’s death after he confirmed that the king had indeed died as a result of Covid-19 complications. “It unconscionable to allow His Majesty’s passing to become the cause of further deaths among His Majesty’s people,” said Buthelezi, who voiced concerns over the Monarchy’s original plans to have the King’s body lie in the State Palace until his burial. “It has therefore been necessary to take the difficult decision that the for the late King not to be laid in state.” Buthelezi said that the burial will happen in private and did not specify exactly when this would take place. “He said he would like to be buried at night and only by men. So we agreed with the royal family that his wish should be granted. And that will happen in private,” Buthelezi announced. “On Thursday there will be a memorial service to remember the King,” Buthelezi clarified. Former President Jacob Zuma, along with KZN Premier Sihle Zikalala were among the key-note speakers at the memorial last Friday. — The South African.