The Herald LUSAKA. — Zambia will battle with Algeria in the 2022 AFCON qualification Group H match at the National Heroes Stadium in Lusaka tonight. Kick-off is at 9pm. The game could have a bearing on the Warriors’ quest for a place at the Nations Cup finals. Chipolopolo are hoping to secure their second victory in Group H having succumbed to a 1-0 defeat to Botswana away in November 2020. Zambia find themselves placed fourth on the group standings — two points behind second-placed Zimbabwe with two matches left. Ghampani Lungu, the Zambia winger, says they are taking it one game at a time ahead of their crucial matches against Algeria and Zimbabwe. “Our team has all the quality you can ask for a cause in every department, we just need to keep on working hard and trusting each other that’s all we need to do,” Lungu said. “Trust each other, fight for each other, fight for the country that’s what we need to do so we are playing two games. “That is Algeria which is our starting point let’s not think of Zimbabwe now let’s just think of Algeria right now let’s take one game at a time.” Algeria are looking to clinch Group H top spot with a win over Zambia, having drawn 2-2 with Zimbabwe, away in their last game in November 2020. The Desert Foxes are sitting at the top of the group standings — five points above second-placed Zimbabwe with Algeria having already qualified for the finals. Djamel Belmadi, the Algeria head coach, has revealed that he will field players, who are new to the national team when they face Zambia. “This match against Zambia is also important in relation to some players, who have never played under my leadership,” Belmadi said. “There are players that have not played for a long time, they will have the opportunity to do so under these conditions and to score points or not. “For new players, I followed their performances with their clubs, something that prompted me to summon them.” The previous meeting between Zambia and Algeria was in November 2019. Algeria claimed an emphatic 5-0 victory over Zambia in the 2022 AFCON qualifier Group H match at the Stade Mustapha Tchaker in the Algerian city of Blida. — AFP. 