The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter HIGHLANDERS are now at an advanced stage, in creating the vehicle, which will handle their mining business concern. The country’s oldest football club were granted a special mining claim by the Government. The club have acquired a mining claim in Inyathi, Bubi District, as they seek to create more avenues, to generate revenue During their annual meeting at the weekend, club chairman Kenneth Mhlophe, appraised members of the developments in their pursuit of having a thriving mining business. “Pursuant to the deliberate strategic focus of diversification, and realising that for our club to achieve many of the lofty ideas it has had for years, it is important to re-define our reality and find means of funding initiatives,’’ he said. “Sponsors continue to diminish and are unlikely to make a return in the traditional sense we understand sponsorship. “We thus, with assistance of various arms of local and national Government, managed to apply for a special grant mining claim in Government reserved area and secured the licence. “We are now at the stage of creating the vehicle that will proceed with mining business and be owned by the club.’’ The club are appealing to members to support the new baby. “We appeal to members for their support, as we try to change our fortunes and make our own destiny, while charting a possible path to financial soundness that will take us off the beaten-and-tried route of traditional funding designs, which have proved unsustainable for years now. “The project, the revitalisation of our training fields, sprucing up of the club house and replica business, will take time and some pain, like all business do, but we are convinced that if we work together in unity, stay the course and maintain strategic focus, it will lead to success.’’ Highlanders said they were still hunting for a main sponsor, following the departure of NetOne, who were their flagship sponsors. “The lack of television coverage for our games makes for a less attractive marketing environment too,’’ Mhlope said. “We have, however, been successful in conversations with targeted partnerships, where we use the strength of our brand as leverage and, to this end, have managed to secure product sponsorship from Arenel Biscuits, service partnership from Sanctuary Insurance, technical partnership from Looks Sports Wear, through their official distributors in Africa, OTB Support Apparel. “We are further delighted with the kit sponsorship of all the juniors’ kit by Eyethu Fruit and Vegie.’’ The club have set four strategic pillars, as part of their focus, concentrating on diversification, people, brand and infrastructure. “In keeping with the strategic focus, we have set out to revamp training fields, install borehole equipment, to allow for watering of the grass. “More equipment is still being sought to increase water storage and irrigation capabilities,” said Mhophe. They raised funds, which were poured towards the re-opening of Ekusileni Medical Centre in Hillside, from club members and other volunteers. The club have beefed up their squad, after acquiring Winston Mhango, Lynoth Chikukwa and Andrew Tandi, who came in as free agents. Veteran players – Ariel Sibanda, Peter Muduhwa, Nqozibitha Masuku, Godfrey Makaruse, Roy Lunga and Rodi Sibanda — had their contracts extended.