The Herald Tsitsi Ndabambi Arts Correspondent Gospel crooner and Star FM Listerner’s Choice award nominee Rose Mambo is working her way up by fusing different genres of gospel songs that seek to appeal to people of all ages. Her soon to be released single titled “Ezintabeni”, which means in the mountains in English, is a poetic acquirement from the popular biblical prayer in Psalm 121. “With all the disturbing and saddening events that the world has been experiencing due to natural disasters like Cyclone Idai and the outbreak of Covid-19 which led to a loss of loved ones, I sat down together with Victor Stot and we wrote the encouraging lyrics to ‘Ezintabeni’, a song that reminds its partaker to look to the heavens for solutions,” said Mambo. “As a way of brightening up someone’s day instead of coming up with a slow or what is viewed as the normal gospel song, we vibed it up with the professional hand of DJ Tamuka to come up with a house beat.” The arts industry was not spared by the Covid-19 pandemic as most artistes were unable to do live shows which usually bring food to their tables. But that did not stop Mambo from hogging the limelight to claim her small space in 2020. She had a hunger to get to the top even though the odds were against her. “I released two singles including, ‘Lujulile’ featuring my friend Rose Tshuma, which has been nominated for the Star FM Listeners Choice Awards and ‘Handitenderedzeke’ which carries an Afro pop,” said Mambo. “I also recorded ‘Ezintabeni’ towards the end of 2020. I had enough time to introspect on how I wanted to grow my brand and the genre that I felt so comfortable with.” Mambo said she was a fan of house music. “I tried house music and I did not allow the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic to destroy the vision I had and to slow me down in terms of music creation. “I am so excited that Star FM recognised the zeal and the hard work I put in 2020 despite the obstacles. “I am grateful for the recognition and pray that in the future my music breaks the international boundaries.” Mambo has been nominated for the Best House/Amapiano song category together with South African based Sha Sha and Nox, ZIMA award winner Mzoe 7 and Lloyd Soul. Born, October, 11 1978 in Bulawayo, Mambo attained a degree in politics and administration, a master degree in public administration and a master’s degree in business administration from the University of Zimbabwe. She is studying for a PhD in Peace, Leadership and Governance with Africa University and she is also a labour practitioner. Her musical career began in 2003 when she released her first album titled “Kufamba na Jesu “ that was produced by Misheck Mahendere and Jabulani Ndhlovu.