The Herald SINGAPORE. — The Digital, Technology, Innovation, Active Esports (DTIA) Commission of the Global Esports Federation spearheads digital innovation in esports-related technologies and supports initiatives around the rapid convergence of esports and sports. The DTIA Commission convenes a new reality of two worlds — esports and sports — converging at an unprecedented pace, accelerated by advances and opportunities in immersive technologies. The Commission is co-chaired by the GEF board members Chris Overholt, president and CEO of Toronto-based OverActiveMedia, with more than 20 years of experience in global sports and entertainment, and Chong Geng Ng, president and founder of the Singapore Esports Association, a leader in technology innovation and development. The DTIA Commission gathers a collective of technologists, scientists, entrepreneurs, futurists, gaming and systems engineers, and the UN’s International Telecommunication Union (ITU). Together, they lead the GEF’s thought leadership around technology strategy that drives digital innovation in esports. “The future of sports and entertainment lives at the intersection of gaming, sport, music, and technology. “The most successful sports properties and organisations will be the ones who adapt best and fastest to this new mashup culture reality. “The leading voices on our commission are working hard to lead the digital change needed to attract bigger audiences and younger fan bases,” said Chris Overholt, Board Member and Co-Chair of Digital, Technology, Innovation, Active Esports Commission, Global Esports Federation. And, Chong Geng Ng, concurred. “Our new reality is that esports, traditional sports, and gaming are converging rapidly, accelerated by the significant development in extended reality (XR) technologies — creating new opportunities for sports to engage their millions of participants and fans in the new and evolved digital world,” Geng Ng, the board member and co-chair of Digital, Technology, Innovation, Active Esports Commission, Global Esports Federation, said. “The Global Esports Federation and our interactive technology partner, Refract, are helping to create a shared knowledge-bridge between the powerful history and foundations of traditional sport and the dynamic rise of esports.’’ More than an innovation incubator to spearhead advancements in virtual sports and active esports, the DTIA Commission takes on a proactive approach to uphold the integrity and legitimacy of esports, and to safeguard all those involved in the community. Together with the ITU, the DTIA Commission facilitates a global dialogue series and various focus groups to increase awareness and drive innovation in the realms of; advancing the benefits of artificial intelligence (AI), supporting health and wellbeing, gender equality, and the future of education. — GEF