The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter AFTER getting several invitations from Europe to send four of their players for trials, Friendly Football Academy have found themselves running into a number of hurdles. The Raylton Sports Club-based academy have been sitting on invitations to send Tafadzwa Masambe, Munashe Bamhara, Alfa Chiwashira and Matthew Jack to European clubs. Friendly Academy technical director, Partridge Muskwe, said the Covid-19 restrictions have made it virtually impossible for the players to try and pursue their dreams. “We are not happy with the current situation, like everyone else, but we think by April, if things keep getting better, our players will be able to attend some trials with some top European clubs,’’ he said. “Had it not been for the current situation, the players could have gone a long way back. “I am not at liberty, right now, to say which team invited them, but some of our players once attended some trials there when we went for the New Balance tournament. “The players are ripe, for any league and, if it was not for Covid-19, they would have improved a lot. “As an academy, we strive to produce top players and we are not only focusing on sport only, as we are also into the academics side, given we offer some scholarships.’’ Friendly Academy, who were formed in 2012, have a good record, in terms of producing some fine players. They were involved in the process, which produced Warriors midfielder, Marshal Munetsi, who is now in France. They also played a part in developing Tendai Jirira, who is now based in the United States, and has been drafted into the Warriors. “There is a lot of talent, I started grooming players back in 1993, while it was still Kambuzuma Youth Soccer Club,’’ said Muskwe. “Several of my players made it into the local Premiership. “After some years, as a coach, I partnered with Richard Solobala and Sydney Matanhike, to form Friendly Academy. “The partnership has seen us sending over 18 players to Europe and we currently have some programmes, which will see us having access to teams in France, Italy, England, USA.’’