The Herald BOTSWANA, one of Zimbabwe’s opponents in the forthcoming African Cup of Nations football qualifiers, are not leaving anything to chance as they have called-up some of their best foreign-based players ahead of these crucial ties set for next week. According to reports from Gaborone, Botswana’s Morocco-based duo of Kabelo Seakanyeng and Tumisang Orebonye are set to join the national team ahead of the crucial Afcon qualifiers later this month. Zebras coach Adel Amrouche will be a happy man with the Olympique Club De Khourigba pair in top form in the Botola 2 league. Zambia-based Mothusi Cooper of Lusaka Dynamos is another key player set to join the Zebras’ camp as they prepare to face Zimbabwe and Algeria at the end of the month. Seakanyeng and Orebonye are expected to join the national team camp on Thursday. Botswana’s Zebras are gunning to play a must win game against Zimbabwe and Amrouche will need all the arsenal to defeat the northern archrivals. The Belgian is also expecting the South Africa-based duo of Mogakolodi Ngele, who turns out for TTM, and SuperSport United defender Thatayaone Ditlhokwe to strengthen his resolve for a spot at next year’s Afcon finals. The Zebras host the Warriors on March 25 at the Francistown Stadium before visiting The Desert Foxes of Algeria four days later. They have to beat the Warriors and hope results go their way in the match between African champions Algeria and Zambia. Algeria is already through to the finals, but the other spot is still up for grabs with the three neighbours in contention. Zimbabwe’s Warriors is second with five points, a point ahead of the Zebras while Zambia’s Copper Bullets anchor the table with three points. It sets the stage for an intriguing two rounds of fixtures with the COSAFA compatriots in a fierce battle to qualify for CAF’s flagship competition. The Zebras were due to play Rwanda in a friendly match, but COVID-19 disrupted plans and the team is likely to do with only training camps. – Sports Reporter/Panafricanfootball.com