The Herald TOKYO. — The Olympic torch relay has kicked off in Japan amid continued public opposition, a year after authorities delayed the Tokyo 2020 Summer Games due to the coronavirus pandemic. The relay began yesterday in northeastern Fukushima prefecture, where a powerful earthquake and tsunami in 2011 killed more than 18 000 people and triggered the world’s worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl. Azusa Iwashimizu, a member of Japan’s 2011 Women’s World Cup winning team, was the first torchbearer. At a ceremony closed off to the public, Iwashimizu set off from the J-Village football complex in the town of Naraha with 14 other members of her team before passing the torch on to the next runner. Some 10 000 runners will now carry the flame across Japan’s 47 prefectures and the relay will end with the Olympic opening ceremony in Tokyo on July 23. Speaking at the start of the relay, Seiko Hashimoto, the president of Tokyo 2020’s organising committee, said she hoped the Olympic flame would “light up hopes around Japan one by one”. The flame, which was flown in from Greece in March last year, has been “kept alive quietly but powerfully as the entire world underwent a difficult period,” she said. “The small flame did not lose hope, and just like the cherry blossom buds that are ready to bloom, it was waiting for this day.” Olympic organisers hope the relay will soften the public mood in Japan, where most people remain firmly opposed to holding the Summer Games. A poll by the Asahi newspaper earlier this week showed some 69 percent of people favoured postponing or cancelling the games. While Japan has dealt with the pandemic better than most countries — with a total of 9 000 people dying from COVID-19 since the start of the pandemic — many are worried the Olympics could help spread the virus. Organisers this week banned foreign spectators, but some 15 400 athletes and thousands of other officials are expected to enter Japan for the Games. Shortly before the start of the relay, 60-year-old Junko Machida said she was “really embarrassed” that the authorities were going ahead with the competition. “They should stop even thinking about the Olympics. There is no way to hold such a big event at the moment,” she said, while also expressing anger over the soaring cost of staging the Games. With current spending estimated at US$15.4bn, the Tokyo Olympics are already the most expensive Summer Games on record. The year-long delay meanwhile is expected to add a further US$2.8bn to expenses. Rumiko Hara (45) says she has “mixed feelings” and wants organisers to delay the Olympics until 2024. “I sympathise with the athletes,” she said from Tokyo. “But I think [the government] should not hold the Olympics this year given the risk.” But Miwa Yamamoto, a 22-year-old student, said delaying the Games was not realistic. “Holding the Olympics is the best decision they could make in this situation,” she said. “But the anti-pandemic measures are not enough. Vaccines won’t be available to everyone till autumn and they should set stricter rules on accepting spectators.” Japan has had a slow vaccine rollout, with only 700 000 people vaccinated so far. Experts say health workers, people aged above 65 and those with health risks will be vaccinated by June, but inoculating the country’s 126-million people is expected to take at least a year. — Al Jazeera.