The Herald DAR ES SALAAM. — TANZANIA’S former president John Magufuli was yesterday buried at his family home in the north-western district of Chato. Mr Magufuli died last week from what the authorities described as cardiac complications. A sombre mood engulfed Chato and its surroundings on Friday afternoon as the casket bearing Maguguli’s body was lowered into the grave at around 4:50pm. The lowering of the casket was followed by the ceremonial 21 gun-salute by the Tanzania People’s Defence Forces. Buried at his family’s grave yard, it was Magufuli’s personal wish to be buried at his ancestral home, a place that the deceased had many fond memories of his formative years. Thousands of mourners from several parts of the country led by President Samia Suluhu Hassan and other top government officials turned up to bid the former head of State farewell. Former presidents Ali Hassan Mwinyi and Jakaya Kikwete attended the burial as well as Zanzibar’s President Dr Hussein Mwinyi and his predecessor Ali Mohammed Shein. Just Like in Dar es Salaam and other parts of the country, mourners started arriving as early as 5:00am, ready to witness the final farewell event in honour of their hero and role model. The burial capped a week of public mourning events across the country. Mr Magufuli, who was first elected in late 2015, is the first Tanzanian president to die while in office since independence more than 60 years ago. There has been a public outpouring of grief for Mr Magufuli,with some Tanzanians saying he will be remembered for his war against grand corruption, resource nationalism and the construction of mega-development and infrastructure projects. Zanzibar’s second Vice President Suleiman Abdalla praised the late president for taking the lead on several development projects in the East African nation. He said that Magufuli left a legacy in all sectors including education, finance, transport and others. “The pain of losing President Magufuli does only affect Tanzanians. It is being felt worldwide,” Abdalla said. Tanzania’s Chief of Defence Forces General Venance Mabeyo said the former President was committed to the development of the economy and the strength of the armed forces because in today’s world a country with a robust economy will always emerge strong militarily. — Agencies