The Herald Shepherd Chimururi Own correspondent A new out of the box approach and strategic implementation is needed to make traditional school computer labs e-learning hubs for the benefit of the students desperate for latest learning aids. Most computer labs in schools are still being used for the practicals of Computer Science subject only. This worrisome trend points to vast under utilisation of resources. There is need to demystify the long held view of regarding computer lab as a place to study a complex gadget called computer only. In the era of e-learning computer labs must be used as digital libraries and classrooms for both research and assignments for all subjects. The master stroke is to encourage collaborations between the Computer Science teacher and other subject teachers. Mathematics teacher can teach Algebra in the computer lab as much as Shona or Ndebele teachers can teach proverbs on the computer. From the perspective of the Computer science teacher that will be a lesson in typing or making tables. Simply put all subjects must be researched and learnt in the computer lab. For this integration to be successful, schools need to make informed choices relating to software installation, pedagogical approach, students’ needs, and learning objectives. Technology applied appropriately and innovatively can and does help students’ pass rate and develop all kinds of skills- from the basic to the higher-order critical thinking ones needed to survive in the 21st century. Students need to be sufficiently prepared, confident and competent in making full use of the benefits of the computer lab facility taking into account acute shortage of books and lack of modern teaching aids. Unfortunately there are multiple of challenges in schools inhibiting the growth of e-learning. At some schools computer lab equipment is still regarded as preserve of the head or computer teacher. There is still monopoly. I remember when I was doing installation of e-learning packages in schools in Manicaland under a programme that was funded by Plan International at a certain school (Mbaza High school) I arrived and waited for more than four hours for the computer teacher who had not come to school that day to bring keys to the lab. Other teachers professed ignorance about what was in the computer lab. The million dollar question is why keys or access to the heartbeat of the school would be personalised. These unnecessary restrictions make the ICT investments white elephants. At another school (Mbaza High) had almost 15 machines in the computer lab had less than 1 gig memory rendering the machines unusable. Surprisingly in the Head and Deputy’s offices there were 2 good computers which I guess are not accessible to students. The two multi-million-dollar questions is who should benefit from ICT investments and what was the objective of buying machines with 512 megabytes? During the installation phase at another school (Mushuje High) the computer teacher confessed that he had forgotten the password. And I had to format the computers. The million dollar question is why a password would be only known by a single teacher. A raft of wide ranging recommendations which I hope will tilt the utilisation of the computer lab to the benefit of the students must be implemented as soon as yesterday. Keys to the computer lab should be kept at admin office. Passwords to the computers must also be shared to all teachers and recorded at the reception for easy access. A clear time table must be set in order to avoid clashes. Schools should consult e-learning service providers on type of machines to buy that are compatible with e-learning packages. Buying computers from the auction or suppliers who have no idea on specifications needed to run e-learning packages is suicidal. The Ministry of Primary and Secondary education should set up minimum specifications for computer to be bought by schools. Buying redundant computers or ICT gadgets should be considered a crime. Ministry should set up an ICT support desk for schools so that they do not fall prey in the hands of greedy ICT dealers. In fact an orientation workshop for SDA, school administration staff and computer teachers is long overdue. The ministry must assist in training of education inspectors in the area of E-learning compliance assessment and supervision. Headmasters and admin need workshop on utilisation of resources e-resources to avoid clashes at schools. The ministry should make it mandatory for schools to acquire technological equipment which is key in implementing holistic e-learning at schools. This include equipment like projector, Dvd player, camera, computers, Wi fi, video cameras, Interactive board etc. in terms of data and network coverage the ministry must plead with the providers to avail cheap data to schools and expand network. All schools with computer labs should produce termly detailed reports on how they are using the equipment and how much they are helping the improvement of students. The parent ministry should to set up minimum ICT skills for teachers. Schools to be compelled to hold E-learning day each term. ICT levy should be audited.