The Herald Thupeyo Muleya
Beitbridge Bureau
Beitbridge-based gospel artiste Hermish Cheya’s relocation from South Africa to Zimbabwe has become a blessing after he managed to pool resources to record his second album this year. Cheya, who was formerly based in Cape Town, has since 2016 struggled to make it in the music industry in the neighbouring country. Although he tried to make inroads in 2016 after enlisting the assistance of renowned gospel diva, Deborah, releasing a second album in that country became a hurdle. He then retraced his footsteps to Beitbridge in 2017.  “Although the first album fared well on the market, I have been failing to record a second album and only revived my music career in 2020 after having moved to Beitbridge in 2017,” said Cheya. The soft-spoken die-hard Dendera music fan started working on his latest offering, “Nhare”, last year and was only able to release it last month. The album is loaded with eight tracks — “Nhare”, “Garaipano”, “Chitenderano”, “Wandisimudza”, “Restoration”, “Hatina Nhamo”, “Buruka Mweya” and “Munyengeri”. “I am grateful to the people at Southern Border Studios. They helped me to find my feet again after having taken a four-year sabbatical. “The title track ‘Nhare’ is an encouragement for people to stick with God no matter the challenges they will be experiencing in their daily lives. People must find comfort in the presence of God.” Cheya said the album was loaded with songs performed in various genres, including the Dendera beat. He said the song “Garaipano”, which has a Dendera beat, had been well received by his legion of fans. Cheya said most of the songs were loaded with praise and social issues. “I have already started working on videos for ‘Nhare’, ‘Garaipanoand ‘Munyengeri, which will be on the market soon. My experience in both Zimbabwe and South Africa has taught me life skills and this has been the driving  force for me to keep pushing for success.” All the songs were recorded as singles until he produced enough to make up an album.  Cheya said his wish was to see more budding artistes in the border town getting enough exposure and airplay on national radios and television. This, he said, will build their confidence to produce good music and compete equally with those from other towns. “My belief is that you don’t have to travel to be recognised, but working hard and producing quality products will give you desired results,” said Cheya.