The Herald Sports Reporter MARTIAL artist and former Sportsman of the Year, Wilfred Mashaya, is basking in glory of scooping gold at a virtual Samurai World Championships. His son, Junior, also won gold. The Championships were an organised tournament on weapons kata or forms. The online contest was hosted, and organised, by the International Martial Arts – Self Defense Kwon-Ki-Do Organisation, based in Poland. Due to Covid-19 restrictions, participants from countries such as Poland, Germany, New Zealand, Russia, United States of America and Zimbabwe, competed by submitting their online videos, which were considered by a selected panel of judges. The tournament involved use of various weapons like katana swords, nunchaku/chuckle sticks, tonfa, sai, bo/staff, kama, and others. Mashaya performed a tonfa weapon kata called hama higa no tonfa, with his son Junior, performing a tonfa kata called terukawa no tonfa. The duo, who have been training at home perfecting their skills, were the only representatives for Zimbabwe, to enter the competition under the Academy ZimNinja, due to some logistical constrains. “It is very difficult to train and prepare for a tournament during this Covid-19 period but l am glad l have been able to do it and continue to raise my country’s flag higher,’’ said Mashaya. ‘’I urge sports people, and Zimbabweans in general, to keep fit by maintaining an exercising regime, which also would help in the fight against the pandemic. “Also keeping in shape will help our sportspersons to represent the country well, when duty calls, in the near future so, relaxation, is not an option.’’ Poland organiser, Grand Master Wojciech Dolny, a 10th dan black belt holder, hailed the martial artists. “I am very grateful to them for that. I know how it is in the world shaken by the Covid-19 pandemic. It is not easy. ‘’Most clubs are not operational and many martial artists affected.’’ Last year, Mashaya and his son, together with sempai Vincent Fambira of Zimninja academy, scooped several accolades, in another online tournament, the 2020 OTW World online Karate Championships, organised by the Mediterranean Karate Alliance. Mashaya was recently appointed the Mediterranean Karate Alliance ambassador to Zimbabwe.