The Herald LONDON.  — Mason Mount fired Chelsea into fourth place in the English Premier League as the midfielder’s superb strike clinched a 1-0 win against troubled Liverpool. Everton boosted their top four bid with a 1-0 victory at West Brom on Thursday night. Mount’s first-half goal was enough to see off lacklustre Liverpool and extended Chelsea’s impressive renaissance under new boss Thomas Tuchel. Chelsea are unbeaten in 10 games in all competitions since Tuchel replaced the sacked Frank Lampard in January. The Blues sit one point clear of fifth placed Everton, who have a game in hand on the west Londoners. While Chelsea are on the up, injury-hit Liverpool crashed to a fifth successive home defeat for the first time in their illustrious history, leaving the spluttering champions without a win at Anfield since before Christmas. Jurgen Klopp’s team are languishing in seventh place, four points behind Chelsea after losing five of their last six league matches. Chelsea dominated the first half, with Timo Werner denied by the narrowest of offside decisions. Werner had flicked the ball round Liverpool keeper Alisson Becker and poked into the empty net, but part of the German forward’s arm was ruled offside after a VAR check. Even that escape couldn’t shake Liverpool into life and Sadio Mane missed a sitter before Chelsea took the lead in the 42nd minute. N’Golo Kante launched a high pass towards Mount and the England midfielder cut in from the left, leaving Fabinho trailing in his wake before curling a superb finish into the bottom corner from the edge of the area. Liverpool were furious not to get a penalty when Roberto Firmino’s cross hit Kante’s arm, but they were well below their best for long periods. The Reds didn’t have an effort on target until the 85th minute as Klopp surprisingly hauled off leading scorer Mohamed Salah. Everton made it three consecutive victories thanks to the in-form Richarlison, while their improving defence recorded a third successive clean-sheet. Richarlison headed home from Gylfi Sigurdsson’s 65th minute cross as the Brazilian netted for the fourth time in as many games after scoring just twice in the league this season before that run. “We’re doing well and now we’re in the fight at the top of the table. The season is still long but we are there and pleased to be there,” Everton boss Carlo Ancelotti said. Second bottom Albion, who had a late Mbaye Diagne effort disallowed for offside, remain nine points adrift of safety as they slide towards relegation. English Premiership Fixtures Today: Burnley v Arsenal (2:30pm); Sheffield United v Southampton (5pm); Aston Villa v Wolverhampton Wanderers (7:30pm); Brighton & Hove Albion v Leicester City (10pm). Tomorrow: West Bromwich Albion v Newcastle United (2pm); Liverpool v Fulham (4pm); Manchester City v Manchester United (6:30pm); Tottenham Hotspur v Crystal Palace (9:15pm). Monday: Chelsea v Everton (8pm); West Ham United v Leeds United (10pm). — AFP.