The Herald ALL is set for the resumption of the 2020/21 domestic cricket season, with two Logan Cup matches scheduled to get underway in Harare today. This week’s fixtures will see Tuskers locking horns with Mountaineers at Old Hararians, while Rhinos will take on Southern Rocks, at Harare Sports Club. Zimbabwe Cricket have become the leading domestic sports association, in terms of keeping their code, alive during these trying Covid-19 times. Eagles, who were leading the standings when the first-class competition was put on hold after the Government suspended all sporting activities at the start of January, will be on a bye, when action restarts. The following round, scheduled for  next week, will see Eagles facing Rocks at Old Hararians, with Mountaineers entertaining Rhinos, at Harare Sports Club. From 30 March to 2 April, it will be Rocks versus Mountaineers at Old Hararians and Eagles against Tuskers, at Harare Sports Club. Mountaineers, the last team to be crowned Logan Cup champions in 2018/19 season, are the only side yet to register some points in the current campaign after they went down to Eagles by six wickets in their only match to date. In the last fixtures in December, before the lockdown was imposed, Rocks — who had last played first-class cricket in 2013/14 — marked their return to Logan Cup action by romping to a 10-wicket victory over Tuskers at Harare Sports Club. Across the city at Old Hararians, the clash between Eagles and Rhinos petered out to a draw, following a third-day washout. As the four-day competition resumes, Takudzwanashe Kaitano of Rhinos is leading the batting charts with 201 runs, including two half-centuries, followed in second place by Craig Ervine (Tuskers), with 151 runs. Milton Shumba (Tuskers), with 122 runs, is in third place. Shane Snater (Rocks) and Faraz Akram (Eagles) are tied on top of the bowlers’ standings, with eight wickets each, one more than Eagles paceman Tanaka Chivanga’s tally. 2020/21 LOGAN CUP FIXTURES March 18-21 Tuskers v Mountaineers (Old Hararians); Rhinos v Rocks (Harare Sports Club) March 24-27 Eagles v Rocks (Old Hararians); Mountaineers v Rhinos (Harare Sports Club) March 30 – April 2 Rocks v Mountaineers (Old Hararians); Eagles v Tuskers (Harare Sports Club) — Zimcricket.com 