The Herald Freedom Mupanedemo Midlands Bureau A police detective inspector is admitted to a private hospital in Gweru after armed robbers fired four bullets at him during a shoot-out. According to a police report, Detective Inspector Tapiwa Shonhiwa (48) and his team responded to distress calls of armed robbery at a local businessman’s house last Sunday night armed with pistols. “They found the house of businessman Mr Allan Gigima besieged by armed robbers who had locked everyone inside. They were beating Mr Gigima and his wife together with their security guards while demanding cash,” said a police source close to investigations. As the team arrived, Insp Shonhiwa fired some shots, but the robbers returned fire, hitting him twice on the groin. “The third shot went through the stomach while the fourth one hit him in the shoulder,” said the source. Mr Gijima yesterday confirmed the robbery and shoot-out at his home, but declined to give further details. “The matter is being handled by the police,” he said. National police spokesperson, Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi also confirmed the incident, but said he was still to get the details. Sources close to the investigations however, told The Herald that police investigations have so far picked up two Delta Beverage Gweru depot employees, one injured with gunshots. “One employee was shot and injured in the leg but he has not indicated where he was shot. The information at hand is that prior to the robbery incident, Mr Gijima, who runs wholesale shops in Gweru, had placed an order with Delta Gweru depot amounting to USD$15 000 which was supp0sed to be paid the next day. It so happened that the attempted robbery occurred the night before when he was supposed to make the payment so there was inside information that he had money amounting to that figure.” The source said two Delta employees, a driver and a salesperson, were now assisting police with investigations. “There is a third employee who was only cautioned not to interfere with the suspects and witnesses in the mater and investigations are still on,” he said.