The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter PREMIER Soccer League clubs have expressed mixed feelings over the proposed cluster competition. The move will bundle teams, into groups, according to their geographical areas in order to minimise travel expenses. The league bosses are proposing a raft of measures, the key being having the league returning this season, but spread across four cities, with teams playing in groups. The club will meet their camping and upkeep costs with the teams playing a round robin competition, over a period of six to eight weeks, during that test period. The top teams, from the groups, will proceed to the semi-finals. The winners will meet in the final match, to be staged at a venue to be agreed, with the sponsors. The matches will all be played behind closed doors. Although the proposal is still a working document, and yet to be ratified, it was a huge taking point yesterday, among football clubs and other stakeholders. However, club officials chose to retain anonymity, for fear of backlash. “From an economic perspective, it makes sense, in the past there used to be Northern and Southern Region, played along those lines,’’ said a club official, who chose not to be named. “But, it kills competition since competition knows no boundary. “Bulawayo Chiefs are known for their giant-killing act so, under the new format, some teams will avoid such a team, which will be confined to playing teams from its town. “Clubs are facing viability issues and, going forward, there is need for a complete overhaul of funding of the clubs, as well as the league. “We are also following events closely, considering that the traditional sponsor is yet to commit, on sponsoring the league.’’ He said there were still a number of grey areas, in the proposal, before it can be embraced. “Whatever is being proposed, on the future of football, must be discussed by the board of governors, and ratified, so we hope due processes will be followed,” he said. “Football has been allowed to return but we are not really understanding this cluster format. “You might be unfortunate to get into a group, which has very strong teams, so you might be at a disadvantage, so the criteria is not really clear to us, and there is need for further consultations.’’ Some clubs which are itching to play Premiership football, for the first time, said they were excited to finally get a chance to feature in the top-flight league. Another club official said they were keen to just have football back, and will adhere to the prescribed format. The league have proposed the use of the National Sports Stadium, Sakubva, Mandava and Barbourfields. The stadia will be inspected by ZIFA First Instance Body. The PSL believe the cluster competition is also a blessing in disguise, considering a number of stadia may not meet the minimum requirements, to host league matches. Last year the grounds committee flagged a number of arenas, including Rufaro, and little has since been done. This season, the league are also proposing to have a single testing system, which will be done through the ZIFA and PSL Sport Medicine Committee. “To avoid delays and lack of uniformity, it is proposed that the PSL Sports Medicine Committee be tasked with monitoring of prompt testing of players and officials,’’ the proposal says. “All PSL Clubs are to strictly adhere to the attached additional Covid-19 containment measures, for the resumption of contact sport, as received from the Sports and Commission. “Testing will be done by the PSL club doctors and monitored by the PSL Sports Medicine Committee. “The Committee will be expanded to have a panel of 10 medical doctors. “PCR/Rapid Antigen testing should be done for all players, officials and club staff, at least 48 hours prior to commencement of training. “Rapid Antigen/PCR tests to be done within every 14 days of training from the last test. “Players and officials who test positive for the Covid-19 virus will be required to isolate as per the Government guidelines. “Training and match protocols will be strictly adhered to. Individual Clubs who wish to procure their own Covid-19 protocols equipment, and increase the frequency of testing in addition to the funding from ZIFA, will be permitted to do so under the guidance of the PSL Sports Medicine Committee.”