The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter AS calls for football to return grow louder, the Sports Commission have said extensive consultations are continuing, with the return of the game, still under consideration. This morning, issues related to sport resumption, will be discussed before the parliamentary portfolio committee on sport. The legislators are expected to be presented oral evidence, on the Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation preparedness, to resume sporting activities in the country. A number of legislators, such as Mathias Tongofa, Mbondiah Memory, Trevor Saruwaka, Gift Banda and Omega Sibanda, sit on the parliamentary committee on sport. The Sports Commission, and Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation officials, will present their data to the committee. The virtual meeting, which had been scheduled for last week, was cancelled after some panellists experienced connection challenges. Domestic football, which was classified among the high-risk sporting codes, under the country’s lockdown rules, has been on hold since last year. The Government have already approved the return of 24 sporting codes, which fall under the low-risk category. Archery, aquatics, badminton, angling, bass, athletics, cricket, cycling, chess, equestrian, rowing, drafts, polo, polocrosse, golf, shooting, tennis, motorsport, swimming, triathlon, lawn bowls, woodball, horse racing and table tennis have been given the green light to resume their activities. Before this approval, only codes involved in international competitions, were getting the greenlight to train, and travel outside the country. Last year, the Sports Commission came up with an initial approval, for top-flight football to be played, in a secure bubble. However, this did not materialise, amid some boardroom battles, and indications from ZIFA, they didn’t have the funds to bankroll the exercise. The association said they considered the proposal to be elitist. Yesterday, the Sports Commission acting director-general, Sebastian Garikai, said they will give an update soon, on the new developments. “The resumption of all sport and football, in particular, is a matter that is still under consideration. “As advised, extensive engagements and consultations are underway, for a sustainable solution to the matter. “The Sports and Recreation Commission will advise the nation of the outcome,” said Garikai in a statement.