The Herald LONDON. — Chelsea and Manchester United completed back-to-back goalless draws in the league, for the first time in about a century, after a stalemate at Stamford Bridge yesterday. The two clubs also drew 0-0 at Old Trafford when the Blues were still under manager Frank Lampard. Things have since changed at Chelsea, with Thomas Tuchel now in charge, and this is a Blues side that has some belief and, more importantly, some experience and steel at the back. The controversial moment of the game came early, after 14 minutes, when Mason Greenwood and Callum Hudson-Odoi tussled for the ball, inside the Chelsea box. Hudson-Odoi appeared to flick the ball with his arm and referee, Stuart Attwell, was advised by VAR to go and review the incident for a possible penalty. The ball first looked to skim Hudson-Odoi’s arm before, also touching Greenwood’s and, when the referee trotted over to the monitor to check, the hosts must have feared the worst. Especially after what happened at St James Park on Saturday when a similar incident ended with a penalty being given. However, Attwell, stuck with his first decision to the disappointment of the visitors. The remainder of the first half, a very tactical affair with few chances, provided quality football but little action. Chelsea looked narrowly the better side and had the best chance of the game and, before the penalty incident, had a golden chance in the fifth minute. Olivier Giroud sensed his opportunity, flew to try and connect with a diving header only to miss by inches, colliding with the frame of the goal, in the process. There were few chances for either side but, two minutes after the restart, the hosts should have gone ahead. Ben Chilwell went cantering down the left, reaching the byline and sending a low cross into the box.  Ziyech was unmarked, with only goalkeeper David De Gea to beat, from eight yards.  The Moroccan striker fired close at De Gea, who got a good palm to it, to produce a very good save. On the hour mark, United had their best chance. — BBC/Mailonline.