The Herald Mukudzei Chingwere in Victoria Falls 
Government has been impressed by the huge turnout of people for the mass immunisation of the vaccination phase which is expected to be kick started by President Mnangagwa. President Mnangagwa is expected to get the shot of the Covid-19 vaccine here in the afternoon, signalling the comment of full scale tourism activities under strict containment protocols. Vice President Constantino Chiwenga who is also the Minister of Health and Child Care expressed his gratitude when he toured several vaccination sites in the resort town ahead of President Mnangagwa’s arrival. “I am so so impressed by the response of the Victoria Falls City residents. They have come enmass, and this is what we would want to see. “This is what we are expecting to see in every corner of Zimbabwe, people to be behaving like what i have seen here in Victoria Falls. “Therefore, the economy will be back on track and the safety of our people will be guaranteed. If we are talking of achieving the 60 percent head immunity this is what it should be. “Everybody is taking part i have just seen the youths putting on their t-shirts Zimbo, i was so impressed,” said VP Chiwenga. He commended the cleanliness he has seen at the health facilities he toured that include Victoria Falls Hotel Clinic, Chinotimba Clinic, Zimbabwe Aids Project, Truck Stop – a centre where long distance drivers are being vaccinated and the central business district. The country’s premier tourist destination – Victoria Falls – is pinning its prospects to salvage crumbs from a Covid-19 ravaged period on vaccination of the people. Tourism, an industry that largely relies on travel – both internationally and nationally, has been hard hit by Covid-19 mitigatory measures which are anchored on avoiding traveling and crowds. “The importance of Victoria Falls to the country is simple, remember this is where we got our first casualty of Covid-19 in 2020 in March, and we are happy that person survived. “It is the flagship of our tourism industry. It is one of the seven wonders of the world, and we are developing this city to showcase Zimbabwe,” said VP Chiwenga.