The Herald Africa Moyo Deputy News Editor The translations into 15 official languages of the handbook of the National Development Strategy 1 (NDS1) were presented to Cabinet on Tuesday, and will be officially launched by President Mnangagwa within the next three weeks. The original English NDS1 has been translated or produced into Shona, Tonga, Nambya, Venda, Xhosa, Kalanga, Chewa, Shangani, Tswana, Sotho, Ndebele, Chibarwe and Ndau, with a Braille version and a Sign Language language translation on DVD. Each translation will be launched in an area where people speak the language. The Ministry of Higher and Tertiary Education, Innovation, Science and Technology Development, through the Midlands State University, undertook the project. Finance and Economic Development Ministry chief director communications Mr Clive Mphambela said in an interview yesterday that the translation and printing, done at a combined cost of $30 million, was critical for the country. “The presentation to Cabinet (of the translated NDS1) was the first step. Once approved, there is going to be a launch by His Excellency (President Mnangagwa), then the Ministry of Finance rolls out the distribution exercise. “We have prepared what is called a language distribution map. For instance, we will launch the Kalanga version in Plumtree. Asked how soon the approval could be obtained, to pave the way for the official launch by President Mnangagwa, Mr Mphambela said they expect that to be done within two and three weeks, at most. After the launch, dissemination workshops will be lined-up across the country and local languages will dominate the discussions. NDS1 is the Government’s economic blueprint that runs from this year to 2025, which has succeeded the Transitional Stabilisation Programme. It is anchored on devolution, decentralisation and judicious use of national resources for the benefit of all citizens, and is the second step in President Mnangagwa’s drive to achieve upper middle income status by 2030. Speaking after Tuesday’s Cabinet meeting, Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services Minister, Monica Mutsvangwa, said: “Cabinet wishes to inform the public that the NDS1 document is now available in 15 languages, including the English version, which is already in the public domain, and the Braille version, which is part of the recent publications. “DVDs on Sign Language are also available, essentially leaving no one behind in terms of access to information on NDS1.” Minister Mutsvangwa said Cabinet received and approved ministerial Five-Year Plans from ministries, outlining their developmental strategies for the next five years in compliance with provisions of the NDS1.