The Herald LONDON. — Anthony Joshua’s eagerly-anticipated undisputed world heavyweight boxing title fight with Tyson Fury is on the “brink” of being finalised. Negotiations over the pair’s long-awaited meeting resumed last December after Joshua’s ninth-round KO victory over Kubrat Pulev. The fine details of the lucrative £200 million contract were ironed out last week. And according to The Athletic’s Lance Pugmire, the biggest fight in the history of British boxing is on the verge of being a done deal. He tweeted: “Pretty to cool to know that on the 50th anniversary of Ali-Frazier I, we are on the brink of having Anthony Joshua vs Tyson Fury heavyweight unification bout finalised, key source tells @TheAthleticBOX.” SunSport understands the long-awaited Battle of Britain will be announced this month. A non-disclosure agreement has prevented both parties from sharing key details of the negotiations. Both men agreed on a two-fight deal last June, although the finer details of their clash were only just recently finalised. Fury’s co-promoter, Bob Arum, said last week: “As far as I’m concerned, all the points have been agreed to. “That’s what each side has said. Now, we’re just scrambling around to get things signed. “I can say clearly, based on my view of everything, there are NO more issues.” AJ recently suggested he could finally share the ring with The Gypsy King in June, saying: “June should be the date. “Trust me. For the fans, for the people that have been calling it on for many, many months. “Shout out to Fury and his team as well, hungry go-getters, that’s what we are. “UK stand up. And to the world — we’re bringing it. I can’t wait. Undisputed.” Veteran promoter Arum, however, has since hinted the fight could be pushed back until July. The 89-year-old recently told The Daily Mirror: “We’re nearly there. “As far as I can ascertain, there are no issues separating the two sides. “There has been consensus agreement in all issues. “We hope very shortly that the fight will be signed. Then we will pick the site and we’ll be up and running. “I’m looking towards late June or early July for the actual fight to take place.” Joshua and Fury, 31 and 32 respectively, are currently hard at work in the gym ahead of their mouther-watering showdown. AJ recently shared a mid-workout photo to Instagram, which showcased his hulking biceps. The snap’s accompanying caption read: “Unruly.” — The Sun