The Herald Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S junior motocross champion rider Emmanuel Bako is set to make his first appearance on home soil this season when he takes part in the opening round of the 2021 Club Championship series at Donnybrook Raceway in Harare on Sunday. Bako has, from the beginning of the year, been racing in South Africa as motorsport, just like many other sports codes, had been on hold due to the Covid-19 restrictions. Motorsport was last week finally given the greenlight by the Sports Commission to resume their activities. Motorsport is among the 24 low-risk sport codes which can finally resume their activities, following the Government’s move to lift some coronavirus restrictions. It encompasses main circuit racing, motocross, drag racing, enduro, karting and flat track. Most of these events are held at Donnybrook Park Raceway, along Arcturus Road, on the outskirts of Harare. And Donnybrook will this Sunday open its doors to the first motocross event of the year – the opening round of the 2021 Club Championship series – which will be hosted by the Bogwheelers Club who run this exciting motorcycling sport in this country on behalf of Motorsport Zimbabwe. This Sunday will see some of the country’s top junior and senior male and female motocross riders making their way to Donnybrook Raceway in Harare to take part in this event and among them will be 14-year-old Bako. Bako’s father and manager, Brighton, confirmed today that his son will “definitely” take part in Sunday’s race meeting at Donnybrook where he will be taking part in the 85cc Class. “Emmanuel has just returned from South Africa where he has been racing since the beginning of the year and he is more than happy to return to race at Donnybrook where he last raced during the Zimbabwe Summer Series in December last year. “He is currently in good form and hopefully he will get the first step on the podium at the business end of Sunday’s race at Donnybrook. “In fact, all members of the Bako family who are involved in motocross will be at Donnybrook on Sunday… We will be there in full force,” Brighton Bako said. Racing on Sunday starts at 10am.