The Herald Nyore Madzianike Senior Court Reporter DISPUTES over control of Waverley Plastic Products, which was owned by the late Victor Cohen, yesterday spilled into the Harare Magistrates Court, with accusations of lying under oath and forging the company’s documents to earn directorship of the firm, being raised. Mr Aron Vico, who claims to be the firm’s managing director and grandson to the late owner of the firm Cohen, took his aunt Amanda Cohen to court accusing her of making false statements at the High Court in a bid to earn control of the company. He claimed that Cohen made a false statement in her answering affidavit filed at the High Court where she allegedly denied signing the firm’s Memorandum of Association, when she had signed. Cohen, who was represented by lawyer Ms Diana Kuwanda, was charged with perjury. She denied the charges when she appeared before Harare provincial magistrate Mrs Vongai Guwuriro. “There was nothing unlawful about accused’s statement that she subscribed to the shares in the registered entity known as Waverley Plastics. The accused rightfully made that statement in respect of her knowledge over what she experienced. The statement was not false at law, as it is a statement that has its own legal meaning and effect in terms of elementary company law, wherein no person would challenge the meaning of the same in a given circumstance,” she said. Mr Vico told the court that he only discovered that Cohen had forged the signatures on the Memorandum of Association through a forensic examination. “During the course of investigations it was revealed that they did not sign the Memorandum of Association. There is a civil dispute of Waverley Plastics on whether they subscribed or not. “Examiners concluded that none had subscribed to the Memorandum of Association. The investigating officer has Amanda’s statement where she confirms that she did not sign the Memorandum. “She is lying, as she did not sign the Memorandum,” he said. The State led by Mr Isheanesu Zvidzai alleges that on July 2, 2020, through a statement made under oath at the High Court, Cohen made a false declaration in her answering affidavit saying: “I deny this and refer the subscription page of the Memorandum of Association of the company attached in the main founding affidavit. “I subscribed to the shares in the company and the suggestion that I and subscribers did not, is nonsensical.” Forensic examination of the signatures on the Memorandum of Association allegedly proved otherwise, leading to Cohen’s arrest. She is expected to be back in court on March 30 for trial continuation.