The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter FOLLOWING the conclusion of their election season, the Zimbabwe Handball Federation have said they now need to work on delivering results for the growth and improvement of the sport. They had their national executive elections early March and on Sunday held elections for their various Commissions online. The Athletes’ Commission will be led by Ashlene Sibiya. Patrick Dembo comes in as the secretary and the two committee members are Clive Mubaiwa and Tafadzwa Mukwasi. Miriam Tofa was elected chairperson for the Women in Handball Commission. She will be deputised by Lydia Chitambo. The other members of the Commission are Dorcas Madzure, who is the secretary, and committee members are Nomsa Makweshe and Yvette Ndlovu. The Referees Commission will be led by Bekezela Ncube while Jabell Zvavashe is the vice-chairperson. Tendai Mudzemba is the secretary. They will be joined by Kawelo Zhuwao and Hebert Moyo as committee members. Eveness Mbewe will lead the Coaches’ Commission. The other members are Hardlife Mapfumo and Dunmore Thole. ZHF secretary-general Edson Chirowodza said their members should expect more activities going forward as they seek to take the sport to the next level. “We now need to have an induction of all the committees, once that is done everyone will know what they are supposed to do and it will be serious business going forward. “We are going to see an improved service delivery and performance by all members as we have people with a strong passion for the game in decision making positions. “We are also going to have a strategic plan and have a website, more technical programmes including provincial national leagues hence our followers must expect more activities. “Our 2021 calendar is ready and we will work towards achieving our short term and long term goals,” said Chirowodza. The national federation is now being led by Beauty Mtsambiwa, who has promised to improve the standards of handball in this country.