The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE netball captain and Surrey Storm defender, Felisitus Kwangwa, made it into starting line up, in the Vitality Netball Super league, for the first time, this weekend. It was a befitting belated birthday present for her. She turned 26 on Tuesday. It could also not have come at a better time, with the world celebrating the international women’s month. She was one of the netball stars, featured by the Vitality Super League, for the “ChooseTochallenge.” The league recognised her, after she made history, by  becoming the first Zimbabwean to sign a professional netball contract, in the United Kingdom. “I choose to challenge so we make a difference all over the world,” was her message. Unfortunately for her, Surrey, who played two matches in two days, as league action returned after a two-week break, lost both matches. On Friday, they narrowly lost 46-49 to Severn Stars at Wakefield. There were three changes for the Storm as Kwangwa, Mikki Austin and Nicole Humphrys moved into the starting line-up on Saturday, for the game against Loughborough Lightning. But, they were crushed 37– 56 by the leaders. During a congested February fixtures, following the return of league action, Kwangwa made her debut, but was a substitute on both occasions — a 42-40 win over London Pulse on February 13 and a 41-53 loss to Saracens Mavericks on Valentine’s Day. Surrey Storm are eighth on the 11-team league. Kwangwa and her team return to court on March 21. Last week journalist, Conor De Smith, featured Kwangwa on the Vitality Super League website. “She has proven a popular figure at Storm, since her arrival. It has been a big change for Kwangwa, though, but the move was an easy decision to make, despite the challenges that come with it,’’ she wrote. And, the Zimbabwean ace said, despite her initial fears, she was ready for the challenge. “It was an opportunity for me, so it wasn’t a very hard decision at all. I was scared at first but the team were talking to me, even before I flew to England,’’ she said. “I thought that these were good people and there was no need for me to be scared. “The fact I was staying somewhere I’ve never stayed in my life, of course I was going to be scared. “It’s really hard to find a new life in a new place that you’ve never been to before. Because I knew Mikki before, and she was there for me, it made me comfortable and I knew I was in the right place. “I can’t say it’s a team, it’s more of like a family. I’m miles away from home but I’ve never felt homesick. “They’re so lovely, they’re so caring and I’m so happy to be among them. So, you will be a bit scared but I can say I feel very comfortable.” She said she feels like an ambassador. “It’s quite an honour, if I may say. I’m the current Zimbabwe captain so, I think, this can be a motivational tool for everyone else in my team, who I know are very capable,’’ said Kwangwa. “It’s only a matter of time and I believe, in two or three years, we will have a lot of Zimbabweans here. “I hope to inspire them. I am always getting messages asking questions about where they need help and I’ve always found time to talk to them. “I always say you need to do something you’re really passionate about. I hope it will help some more girls in their lives. “Having players from different countries is very important, the way we do things makes a big difference. “A team comprised of players, with different skills, brings something beneficial for a team. It helps improve netball in the UK but, now that I’m here, back home too. “I have learnt a lot of new things which I can teach some of my teammates back home. “That’s where you get new ideas, learn new things and having more players in these countries will only help netball all over the world.” She believes women are now fighting for their rightful place in society. “For centuries, women have never been in the spotlight but, of course, things are changing, which is good,’’ said Kwangwa. “Back home, in Africa, the situation is a bit different than this side, where more women are more confident about themselves, and believe they’re capable of doing anything. “Most women find it difficult to stand up for themselves, to say “I can do it’ and mostly it’s because they’re scared of being judged by the society. “When we fail, people will always talk a lot. When you succeed, only a few will say something. “It’s still a process but things are changing. We have a lot of women getting involved in almost everything, in all sectors. “It hasn’t reached the point where I wish it would be but it’s something which is ongoing and I’m so happy about it. “I’ve seen a lot of women back home motivating us, since I was in primary school, some are now even in politics. “It shows things are progressing very well and hopefully very soon we will reach equality level.’’