The Herald Crime Reporter A suspected machete gang leader has been arrested in Kwekwe for committing a spate of armed robberies in and around the area. Police impounded his getaway vehicle a Toyota Mark X and recovered an axe and a knobkerrie, among an assortment of weapons he was allegedly using to commit crimes. Edmore Mupande (36) is still assisting police with investigations and will appear in court soon once the investigations have been completed. He was arrested by police in Kwekwe following a tip off. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi confirmed the arrest. “Police in Kwekwe have arrested Edmore Mupande aged 36 in connection with several cases of robbery which occurred in and around Kwekwe. “Police recovered an axe, a knobkerrie and stolen Nokia Lumia cellphone in the suspect’s silver Mark X vehicle which was used as a getaway car in the commission of crime. Investigations are in progress,” he said. Mupande is believed to be behind a group of criminals that had been terrorising residents in Kwekwe targeting cash, gold and other valuables while armed with machetes, axes and knobkerries. His arrest also comes after nearly 20 000 people have been arrested by police this year for various illegal activities, including machete gangs and foreign currency dealings, in a move aimed at ridding the country of malcontents. Touts, unscrupulous fuel dealers, motorists with unregistered vehicles and those found with dangerous weapons, were nabbed under various operations. Recently the ZRP intensified operations; “No to unregistered motor vehicles,” “No to touts,” “No to unscrupulous fuel dealers,” “No to illegal forex dealers,” “No to dangerous weapons,” “No to machete gangs” and “No to cross-border crimes,” among other several operations. In September last year, gangs armed with machetes and knobkerries resurfaced countrywide, targeting mines and individuals keeping large amounts of cash, prompting police to relaunch “Operation Chikorokoza Ngachipere” and “No to Machete Wielding Gangs”. A few months ago, police restored order in mining areas after taking on the gangs, arresting large numbers and thwarting a wave of violence. That “gangland” violence claimed the lives of several people and left many injured. Since January last year, 12 330 machete gang members and other criminal elements have been arrested in mining communities countrywide. Police launched “Operation Chikorokoza Ngachipere”, following an outcry from citizens over machete-wielding robbers who were terrorising people in mining communities. Criminal activities by the marauding gangs of machete attackers have seen reports of murder, rape, assault, housebreaking and stock theft. Police statistics show that in the mineral-rich Midlands Province, reported criminal cases rose 33 percent in the first nine months of 2019 because of the influx of machete attackers. Recently, machete gangs raided the Circle V mine in Shurugwi and stole a firearm and $5 000 cash, stabbing and injuring one mine employee in the process. Management said the money was part of the float used to buy gold at the mine. Lately, machete gangs have been targeting people dealing in cash around Harare.