The Herald Nyore Madzianike Senior Court Reporter Judicial manager, Cecil Madondo, who is facing allegations of selling the same exclusive mining rights three times between October and December last year, resulting in one of the firms losing US$260 000, yesterday had his bail conditions relaxed and was allowed to visit Redwing Mine where he is employed. Harare regional magistrate Mr Stanford Mambanje also eased Madondo’s police reporting conditions from three times a week to once a fortnight. The State, through the investigating officer, consented to the relaxation of the bail conditions saying much of the evidence needed in the matter had been gathered. Madondo was initially denied bail at the Magistrates Court before he appealed at the High Court through his lawyer Mr Reuben Mukavhi. He was then freed on $100 000 bail by Justice Priscilla Munangati-Manongwa coupled with other reporting conditions. Madondo had been appointed by the High Court as corporate rescue practitioner of Redwing Mine in Penhalonga, Mutare, when he allegedly sold the mining rights three times. It is alleged that on October 15 last year, Madondo told Patricia Mutombgwera and Grant Chitate that he had given their company, Probadeck Investments Pvt Ltd, exclusive mining rights on the claims held by Redwing Mining Company (Pvt) Ltd covering 132 gold mining blocks, eight copper mining blocks and any other mining claims belonging to Redwing Mine. The court heard that on October 30 last year, Mutombgwera and Chitate, acting upon that information, signed a joint venture agreement with the mining company represented by Madondo believing that their company had secured exclusive mining rights. Both parties went on to register a tribute agreement with the registrar of deeds to make their joint venture agreement operational. Probabadek Investments allegedly paid US$60 000 corporate rescue fees into Madondo’s personal company, Tudor House Consultants, and made a capital expenditure amounting to US$200 000. It is alleged that sometime in November 2020, Madondo prepared another memorandum of tribute agreement with Prime Royal (Pvt) Ltd giving them the same mining blocks which he had ceded to Probabadek. Further allegations are that on December 1, 2020 Madondo entered into another memorandum of tribute agreement with Betterbrands Mining (Pvt) Ltd giving them the same mining blocks.