The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S top female bodybuilder, Regina Jonga, is hopeful local gyms will be re-opened soon as she is preparing for the Universe contest in Thailand. Jonga scooped a gold medal, in the Women Extreme category of the WFF Bodybuilding competition, in 2019, in China. She was then awarded a pro card, which makes her a professional bodybuilder. Jonga, who is back in the country from her base in South Africa, is working on her own, with her next assignment set for August. She made history, by becoming the first black bodybuilder from Africa, to take to the stage at the highest level. “I am currently working at home and, ever since I returned from South Africa it is not well, as the gyms are closed. ‘’I should have been in the gym but I am now relying on some online tips which I am following. “I think it is prudent for the authorities to give us an opportunity to start, and I also urge some athletes to observe the recommendations, if we are given the chance. “Covid-19 is real, so we need to stay healthy,” said Jonga. She said she also needs corporate support, especially when going for big contests, like the upcoming Universe. “It is very challenging and, after getting my pro-card, I thought it was time I get the fruits of all the efforts I had put in, but Covid-19 struck. “I was at the peak and it let me down and now, as I prepare for the Thailand contest, I look forward to getting support, from the corporate world. “It is accommodation and travel tickets, which matter the most and, with that, I think I can continue to give the hulks a good run,” said Jonga. She started bodybuilding in 2012 before taking to the stage competitively in 2013. She competed in many shows, including Miss Zimbabwe, Arnold Classic 2016 and 2017, LFBBS South African championships, SA Gentle Giant, WFF SA Championships, Pretoria Classic, among others. She won all the competitions and, in March 2019, she competed in her first international show, in China, where she won and was accorded a pro-card, allowing her to compete in international contests.