The Herald IT’S a tight affair in the Logan Cup match, between Mountaineers and Rhinos, at Harare Sports Club, with very little separating the two teams. After day two, Rhinos trail by four runs. Mountaineers resumed their innings, on the second day of the contest, yesterday on 263-8, with Victor Nyauchi on 17, and Tinashe Muchawaya 15. Muchawaya did not add to his overnight score but Nyauchi went on to record his highest score, in first-class cricket, with 39 before being the last man out. Both batsmen were caught behind by Nyasha Mayavo, off Carl Mumba, who finished with three wickets for 46. Brandon Mavuta was expensive, for his four wickets, which cost him 126 runs. The total was 290, a good recovery from 168-7, at one stage. Nyauchi struck a great blow for Mountaineers when, in the first over of the Rhinos innings, he trapped Prince Masvaure lbw without a run on the board. Tarisai Musakanda was in next, but only scored 13, before Dion Myers claimed him lbw for 13. At 27-2, Brendan Taylor came in and made a slow start but then started to find his touch. With Takudzwa Kaitano playing well, at the other end, Taylor began driving powerfully, and hit five fours, before he was given out, caught behind, as he swished at a ball down the leg side, from Muchawaya. He scored 30 and the score was now 81-3. At lunch, Rhinos were 86-3, with Kaitano on 32 and Remembrance Nyathi still to score. Kaitano’s innings came to a disappointing end, as with a simple miscue of a ball from Nyathi, he lobbed a catch on the off side for 38. Nyathi played a defensive game, while Charles Kunje tried to push the score along, and reached an impressive fifty, off 71 balls. The teams took tea with the score 202-4, Kunje on 58 and Nyathi 47, having just reached their century partnership. The stand reached 126 before Nyathi appeared to lose concentration and slashed loosely at a ball from Clive Chitumba, which was outside his off stump, to be caught behind for 55. He faced 140 balls in a solid innings and hit five fours. Nyasha Mayavo played well from the start, while Kunje gave hopes of a century, but with 79 to his account, he was beaten by a ball from Munyonga and smartly stumped by Kudzai Sauramba; 254 for six. Munyonga bowled with great skill to take four wickets for 35, while Nyauchi had two for 51. — zimcricket.