The Herald TWITTER has suspended the account of Kenya’s Francis Gaitho, a football agent who has turned into a vicious critic of FIFA president Gianni Infantino. Gaitho claims Infantino has been trying to influence the outcome of the battle for the CAF presidency. Gaitho finds himself in the league of such individuals, like former United States President, Donald Trump, who were silenced on Twitter. While Trump was banned, Gaitho has been suspended and his handle could be activated, at least, after two weeks. “Your account has been suspended for violating Twitter rules,” a message sent to the account holder, by Twitter, read in part. The United States social media company, however, did not specify what Gaitho had done, to deserve a suspension, from their platform. However, the Kenyan blogger, has transformed himself into a critic of FIFA, especially the organisation’s boss Infantino, whom he accuses of allegedly brokering deals, to come up with a structure of the CAF leadership, which he wants. He has become a source of news, for some media organisations, when it comes to the politics behind the CAF elections, and was a guest on Robert Marawa’s radio programme, in South Africa, this week. Soccer Laduma also quoted him claiming that Infantino had struck a deal, in Rabat, Morocco, for Patrice Motsepe, to become the next CAF president with Ahmed Yahya, of Mauritania, and Augustin Senghor, of Senegal, as his immediate lieutenants. “The Mamelodi Sundowns owner is in the running for the highest seat on the continent against the likes of Ivory Coast’s Jacques Anouma‚ Senegal’s Augustin Senghor and Mauritania’s Ahmed Yahya,’’ reported Soccer Laduma. “Now, according to Kenyan (blogger) Francis Gaitho of Kenya Football, Motsepe’s bid was boosted after FIFA president Infantino brokered an agreement which will see Senghor and Yahya step down their respective bids in support of Patrice Motsepe, with both candidates being offered vice president roles. “According to Gaitho, Souleymane Waberi of Djibouti will take up the third vice president spot. A confidential memorandum of understanding is set to be signed in Rabat, Morocco on Tuesday.’’ Some mainstream journalists, who cover African football, including BBC’s Piers Edwards, tweeted yesterday, saying it was interesting that Gaitho’s Twitter account had been suspended. “Interesting to see that the Twitter account of outspoken @FIFA.com and @CAF_Online critic, Francis Gaitho, aka @Kenyafootball, has been suspended. It comes just a week before crunch CAF presidential elections,’’ tweeted Edwards. Another prominent African football journalist, Osasu Obayiuwana, of Nigeria, questioned the move. “It appears that some people are fearful of what (Gaitho) has to say. Why is that? Is it because there is a large degree of truth in what he has been saying, concerning the @CAF_Online elections?’’ — Agencies.