The Herald Manchester City       0 – 2      Manchester United Liverpool                        0 –  1      Fulham Manchester United brought Manchester City’s sequence of 21 successive victories in all competitions to a crashing halt with an impressive 0-2 victory at Etihad Stadium yesterday. Pep Guardiola’s side still have what looks to be an unassailable 11-point lead at the top of the Premier League, but the manner in which United subdued a previously unstoppable City and enhanced their own top-four chances will be a huge confidence boost to manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer and his players. United, who have now gone 22 league away games unbeaten — including 14 wins — stunned City with a fast start and were ahead after a penalty was awarded inside the first 30 seconds when Gabriel Jesus fouled the impressive Antony Martial. Bruno Fernandes scored from the spot despite City keeper Ederson getting a strong hand on the ball, then United fashioned the win with a mixture of solid defence and constant menace on the break. Rodri almost equalised just after the break when his shot glanced off the angle of post and bar, but United effectively sealed the win — condemning City to their first loss since a 2-0 defeat at Tottenham on 21 November — when the outstanding Shaw, who had earlier missed a chance to double United’s lead, led a counter-attack, exchanging passes with Marcus Rashford before beating Ederson with a low shot. Solskjaer’s team, who had not scored in their previous three games, moved back into second place, a point ahead of Leicester City in the increasingly tight fight for a place in the top four. United show their best side United’s recent performances were greeted with frustration, particularly after they played out unambitious, goalless stalemates at Chelsea and Crystal Palace. It cemented the impression that this was a very talented side that had arguably under-achieved this season. This was the other face of United, the one they need to show more often if they are to find the sort of consistency that leads to serious title challenges. They struck early to grab the initiative, then retained impressive composure and control even as City, inevitably, threatened to work their way back into contention. And the symbol of what United could be perhaps came in the shape of Anthony Martial, so often inconsistent but outstanding here as they looked a constant threat on the break. Martial missed a couple of second-half opportunities but fully deserved the applause he received from the United bench when he was replaced by Nemanja Matic late on. Martial was not the only significant contributor. Goalkeeper Dean Henderson looked secure and confident as he kept another clean sheet, pressing his claims to be United’s number one with David de Gea away in Spain after the birth of his daughter. Shaw will have impressed watching England manager Gareth Southgate, while Aaron Wan-Bissaka won his personal battle with Raheem Sterling. This, above all, was a tight-knit team effort from United and great credit must go to Solskjaer for another impressive game plan and victory at City. United did the double over City last season and Solskjaer is the first United manager to win three successive away games against their arch-rivals since a run of four between November 1993 and November 2000. He is also the first manager in United’s history to win his first three away meetings against City in all competitions. All in all, a good day’s work for United and their manager. City finally fall short City and Guardiola will be bitterly disappointed that it was United who finally brought their winning run to an end, but it is hardly a wound that is likely to prove fatal to their title aspirations. City had to fall eventually and it came against a United side that seem to have the formula to subdue them at Etihad Stadium. And so it proved once more. City paid the price for a dreadfully sluggish start in which they conceded the penalty and offered up other opportunities which they were fortunate United did not take. Not even the finest teams can maintain winning streaks forever and this was a day when City could not hit their rhythm, were guilty of over-elaboration in and around the penalty area and their best performers could not hit the heights. Kevin de Bruyne’s touch deserted him, even if his willingness to demand the ball and determination to influence events did not, while Sterling could not get the better of Wan-Bissaka. Jesus’ only contribution of significance was to give away the penalty, and it was surprise that when City needed a goal and penalty box skirmishes were increasing, Guardiola chose to leave his master marksman Sergio Aguero on the bench. This was not City’s day but the bigger picture is still bright as they chase four trophies. One defeat will not derail them from that and it is impossible to see anyone else ending as Premier League champions despite this painful loss to their neighbours. ‘What a performance’ — what they said Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola told BBC Sport: “Congratulations Manchester United first of all. “Ten games left, now we arrive the important part of the season. The last 10 games are important and we start next Wednesday. We will try to win as many games as possible to be champions. “Against West Ham we played much, much worse than today. Against West Ham we didn’t deserve to win and maybe today we didn’t deserve to lose. We were not good in front of goal — our strikers were not brilliant today — but it happens.” Since the start of the 2019-20 season, three of City’s five home defeats in all competitions have come against United. United are unbeaten in their past 103 Premier League games when leading at half-time (W91 D12). Marcus Rashford’s assist for United’s second goal was his 10th in all competitions this season — the first time he has reached double figures. Since his Premier League debut in February 2020, United’s Bruno Fernandes has scored 12 of his 13 penalties. Meanwhile, Fulham side secured a crucial win against Liverpool to give their survival hopes a huge boost and Liverpool continues its incredible slump. Mario Lemina’s goal on the stroke of half-time, after the Gabon midfielder had dispossessed Mohamed Salah, inflicted a sixth successive Premier League home defeat on the Reds and saw Parker’s side draw level on 26 points with 17th-placed Brighton. It was Fulham’s first win at Anfield since 2012, while champions Liverpool are now struggling to finish in the top four after another uninspired performance at home. The Reds, who won the title last season by 18 points, had gone 68 home league matches unbeaten before their current run started with a loss to Burnley in January. This is one of my lowest moments — Klopp reaction from Anfield and Sunday’s Premier League latest Since then they have also lost on home soil to Brighton, Manchester City, Everton, Chelsea and now Fulham. Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp made seven changes following the defeat to Chelsea in  But Liverpool were poor and have now failed to win their last eight home games.— BBc.