The Herald LOS ANGELES. — Boxing icon “Marvelous” Marvin Hagler has died aged 66. His wife, Kay, confirmed the sad news on social media late on Saturday night. The American, widely regarded one of the greatest boxers ever, reigned as the undisputed middleweight world champion between 1980 and 1987. Hagler dominated the middleweight division from 1979 until his controversial defeat by Sugar Ray Leonard in April 1987. His 12 title defences rate as the third-longest ever championship reign, while his six years and seven months with the belt is the second-longest tenure for a  middleweight. Kay, with whom he had five children, wrote on Facebook: “I am sorry to make a very sad announcement. “Today unfortunately my beloved husband Marvelous Marvin passed away unexpectedly at his home here in New Hampshire. “Our family requests that you respect our privacy during this difficult time. “With love, Kay G. Hagler.” A boxing Hall of Famer, Hagler was named Fighter of the Decade (1980s) by Boxing Illustrated and twice named Fighter of the Year (1983 and 1985) by The Ring magazine. He legally changed his name to “Marvelous” in 1982, after becoming annoyed that American commentators were not using his nickname. Regarded as one of the best pound-for-pound fighters ever, while his stunning record of 52 KOs in 62 wins see him ranked among boxing’s heaviest hitters. Hagler took part in 67 fights during his 14-year professional career. He won 62 of those, 52 by knockout, while he drew two and lost three times. Hagler made 12 successful title defences and famously won the classic fight known as “The War”, when he beat Thomas “Hit Man” Hearns in April 1985. “Boxing lost an all-time great today,” said boxing promoter Frank Warren. Former world featherweight champion Barry McGuigan said he was “shocked and deeply saddened” to hear of the “incredible” Hagler’s death. The Irishman added: “I’m honoured to have spent some amazing times with him. My heartfelt sympathies to his wife Kay and his family. Rest in Peace Champ.” British heavyweight Derek Chisora said Hagler was “one of the greatest”. His chin was perhaps his greatest asset, with just one knockdown scored against him in 67 professional fights – with even that still hotly contested by fans and pundits. Hagler had initially claimed the middleweight crown in his one and only fight on British soil, beating Alan “Boom Boom” Minter by third-round TKO at Wembley Arena. Marvelous went on to be part of some of the biggest matches in fight history, with blockbuster bouts against the other members of the “Four Kings” — Roberto Duran, Thomas Hearns and Sugar Ray Leonard — on his CV. He retired with a 62-3 record, and two draws, with the 1987 split-decision defeat to Leonard his final fight — and one that remains one of boxing’s most controversial results. Oscar De La Hoya paid tribute to Hagler on Twitter, writing: “Saddened to hear about the death of Marvelous Marvin Hagler. One of the greatest to ever step in the ring! RIP Marvelous.” Eddie Hearn wrote: “Rest in eternal peace the Marvelous One!” The southpaw’s most heralded triumph came in a 1985 matchup at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas against Hearns that lasted only a tick over eight minutes but was regarded as a classic. After a first round filled with power punches in which Hearns suffered a broken right hand, Hagler suffered a cut to the head early in the second. A ringside doctor examined Hagler in the third round and the fight went on. Hagler wobbled Hearns with a powerhouse right and sent him to the canvas moments later, Hearns rising only to collapse into referee Richard Steele’s arms. Hagler won the World Boxing Council and World Boxing Association middleweight titles in 1980, stopping Britain’s Alan Minter in the third round at London’s Wembley Arena, and added the International Boxing Federation’s inaugural title in 1983. Hagler defended the undisputed crown 12 times, including a 15-round unanimous decision victory over Panama’s Roberto Duran in 1983 and his final triumph, an 11th-round knockout of unbeaten Ugandan John Mugabi in 1986. — AFP.