The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor A NEW motorsport academy has emerged in Harare. Named Bambino Academy, it is the brainchild of one of the country’s top former motor racing drivers, Kevin Dufty, and his family. It is designed to introduce youngsters, from five to seven years, to the world of motorsport, via karting, under a professional and disciplined environment, with all safety aspects being covered. The academy, based at Hellenic Sports Club in Harare, has already received the blessings of Motorsport Zimbabwe. It will be run by the Duftys under their Pole Position Karts project. Their commercial “Arrive and Drive” karting experience has been enjoyed by all their participants and has served as an introduction to formal motorsport for many of them. And, Motorsport Zimbabwe, through their president, Ralph Stead, recently welcomed the setting up of the Bambino Academy. “Motorsport Zimbabwe is the governing body of motorsport in Zimbabwe and one of its objectives is to not only introduce motorsport to new enthusiasts, but to ensure the continuation of the sport under strict safety and compliance conditions. “Reporting to the Zimbabwe Sports and Recreation Commission, Motorsport Zimbabwe ensures that all the requirements of the Sports Commission are also met. “This also applies to the requirements laid down by the Federation Internationale Automobolism (FIA), the world governing body of motorsport. “We are pleased to see Pole Position Karts is taking on a new initiative to bring karting to even younger participants with their new ‘Bambino Academy’. “Motorsport Zimbabwe is very pleased to endorse the Pole Position Karts facility and their new initiative to introduce young people to the world of karting. “This opens the door to young people who want to experience motorsport at a very young age and at an affordable price,” said Stead. Kevin Dufty said the academy will act as a feeder system to the main kart racing at Donnybrook Raceway in Harare. “Getting into karting is relatively simple. Firstly, you need to become a member of the Sables Karting Club, have a medical (free with license), apply for a race license, purchase a kart, practice and RACE! “For aspiring young drivers, there are two classes available, with Kid Mini for six to nine-year-olds and Mini Rok for ages eight to 13 years. “Race meetings are held approximately eight times per year, from end of February, and membership also allows the kids discounted track entry to practice at Donnybrook anytime. “As the official Rok Cup Zimbabwe promoter and agents for RKT Racing in South Africa, we offer full spares back up and technical support. “Most parts are priced similar to those in South Africa. We also supply karts, tyres, a range of helmets, race suits, gloves and neck braces, all at great prices to make it easy to get the kids on track. “We offer coaching in a safe environment at our Pole Position Karts track at Hellenic Sports Club and a session out at the Donnybrook under the expert guidance of my son Zac, who is excellent with youngsters, and has vast knowledge of driver coaching, having himself been coached by top professionals. “We also give a run-down of the mechanical aspects of the kart with dad and mum to give them a basic idea of how to run a kart,” Dufty said. Zac has raced extensively both in Zimbabwe and South Africa, gaining exceptional top-level experience, in the world of karting. The 17-year-old has raced in two World Championships and competed in South Africa, for nine years, where he was in the top three in 2019.  Zac was this year expected to move to the main circuit racing in the competitive South African Formula Ford Class. “Zac’s South Africa plans have been delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic but we are hoping he can get down there in May to race in the very fast KZ class at the new FK track in Benoni,” Kevin said.