The Herald BEIJING. – China has been unwaveringly supporting other countries, especially developing ones, in their fight against the COVID-19 pandemic Upholding the vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind, Chinese President Xi Jinping has pledged continued support to developing countries in curbing the deadly virus.In a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Keith Rowley of Trinidad and Tobago on Tuesday, President Xi said since the Covid-19 epidemic broke out, the two sides have helped each other in times of adversity. Trinidad and Tobago is the first among Latin American and Caribbean countries to donate aid materials to China, and China has also provided anti-epidemic supplies and technical assistance for Trinidad and Tobago through various channels, Xi said. China is willing to strengthen vaccine cooperation with Trinidad and Tobago, and to continue to support the country in fighting the epidemic, President Xi said. On the same day, in a telephone conversation with Guyanese President Irfaan Ali, President Xi said China and Guyana, though far apart, enjoy a deep and close friendship. China stands ready to strengthen cooperation with Guyana in COVID-19 vaccines and continue to provide assistance and support within its capacity for Guyana’s economic and social development, headded. China is providing Covid-19 vaccine aid free of charge to 69 developing countries in urgent need, while exporting vaccines to 43 countries, according to official figures. In Windhoek, Namibia will launch its Covid-19 vaccination campaign tomorrow after receiving the first batch of Sinopharm vaccine from China, Minister of Health Kalumbi Shangula said on Tuesday. Shangula who thanked China for the goodwill gesture said the vaccination campaign will kick start under Phase one from March 19 to April 16, 2021 in selected districts. At the 46th Session of the UN Human Rights Council, China has called for a people-centered global response to the Covid-19 pandemic. The country has urged strengthening cooperation on vaccine research and development, production and distribution, so as to make vaccine truly an accessible and affordable public good for the people of all countries, especially developing countries. Earlier this month, in a phone conversation with Polish President Andrzej Duda, Xi said that China is willing to provide COVID-19 vaccines within its capabilities to Poland in accordance with the European country’s demand. Since the outbreak of Covid-19, China and Poland have been looking out for and helping each other, with the two sides engaging in cooperation in pandemic prevention and control as well as resumption of work and production, which opened a new chapter of their friendship. – Xinhua 