The Herald MADRID – Barcelona travel to Real Madrid today in what is set to be one of the most pivotal El Clasico meetings in recent memory. Both sides are fast closing in on stuttering Atletico Madrid at the top of the Spanish La Liga table. The Catalans, unbeaten in 19 league games, are just one point off the pace while third-placed Real trail by three points after closing the gap from 10 in February. Zinedine Zidane’s side are also flying high after their comprehensive 3-1 victory over Liverpool in their Champions League quarter-final first leg on Tuesday. Madrid forward Karim Benzema has warned that they need to keep Lionel Messi, who has scored 12 goals in his last 10 league appearances, out of the game if they are to get the three points. “It’ll be a tough game against a side who like to dominate the ball,” Benzema said. “They’ve got a great goalkeeper and of course Messi, the player who does everything for Barcelona. We need to be wary of him because he’s so, so dangerous. “Just like in the first meeting this season we’ll go out on the pitch looking for the win, it’s a final for us.” The hosts will be without injured captain Sergio Ramos and centre back partner Raphael Varane, who is isolating following a positive Covid-19 test. However, Eden Hazard and Dani Carvajal could both be available for Zidane after returning to full training. Barca are sweating on the fitness of defender Gerard Pique, who has a knee issue. Messi’s 45th Clasico today could also be his last as Barcelona look to rubberstamp their progress under Ronald Koeman by beating Real Madrid and claiming top spot in La Liga. The reward for the winners at Valdebebas will be knocking Atletico Madrid out of first place for the first time since December, before they mounted a run that saw them go 10 points clear with a game in hand at the start of February. But Atletico’s recent struggles, combined with a surge in momentum for Madrid and Barca, has seen that advantage evaporate, the question now whether Diego Simeone’s team can recover and regroup to even stay in the race through the final stretch. Who Atletico have to hold off or, more likely, catch in the last nine games could depend on this weekend’s result at the Alfredo di Stefano stadium, where both clubs will be hoping for the ultimate vindication of recent improvement. Success for Barcelona would be another significant check-point too in what has been an uplifting few months, the start of a recovery that has run alongside the ongoing uncertainty of what Messi will decide this summer. Messi’s every goal and glance this season has been analysed for possible indications as to the 33-year-old’s thinking but what is clear is how the atmosphere at Barca has changed since he asked to leave for free last August. Joan Laporta’s election as club president, replacing Josep Maria Bartomeu, has brought enthusiasm and, crucially, a sense of direction again, even if the financial problems from the last regime are still very much the problems of the new one. Messi is not expected to consider offers to renew his contract until the end of the season but Laporta has been pulling hard on the heart-strings. “Today was the 20th anniversary of a boy named Leo Messi who debuted in the youth teams of Barca,” Laporta said in his victory speech last month. “To see Leo come to vote, the best player in world soccer, with his son for me, is an example of what we’ve said, that Leo loves Barca and how we are all one big family.” Spanish La Liga Fixtures Today: Getafe v Cádiz (2pm); Athletic Club v Deportivo Alavés (4:15pm); Eibar v Levante (6:30pm); Real Madrid v Barcelona (9pm). Tomorrow: Villarreal v Osasuna (2pm); Valencia v Real Sociedad (4:15pm); Real Valladolid v Granada (6:30pm); Real Betis v Atlético Madrid (9pm). Monday: Celta de Vigo v Sevilla (9pm). -AFP