The Herald THERE was a time, not so long ago, when we all feared our cricket was on a slippery slope to doom. When it was common to read some depressing stories, especially in the international media, that we were going the “Kenya Way.” For those who don’t know, the “Kenya Way” is a phrase used in cricket to describe a country which would have plunged from the top, of the game, into its shadows. It came about after the East African nation stunned the world to reach the semi-finals of the ICC Cricket World Cup in 2003, playing an aggressive and attractive brand of the game. In October, 2005, Kenya even came to Harare and beat a Zimbabwe team, led by Heath Streak, by 30 runs, in what commentators said was yet another signal of how the two countries were going in different directions. The East Africans were praised for the progress they were making while we received severe criticism for our spectacular fall from grace, with some even suggesting the game here was now on its deathbed. Then, just when some were suggesting the Kenyans were on the right path to possibly gain Test status, it all started to go wrong for them. Now, the East Africans have disappeared from the limelight, their game is in a shambles and they are now hardly recognised as the team which carried so much hope, back then. In short, when major cricket playing countries in the world are talked about, these days, the Kenyans don’t come into the conversation. Things couldn’t be more different, for us, as we have forced our way back into that conversation after picking ourselves from the canvas and fighting to revive a sport which means a lot to many people, in this country. When our cricket administrators decided to voluntarily withdraw from Test matches, so that we sort out the challenges which were affecting our game, some said it was the first major signal we were on the highway to doom. Internal challenges, including some based on racial issues, alleged mismanagement of funds and general despondency had reduced us to a punching bag. Back then, in 2005, we were being blown away in two days, in Test matches, our standards had fallen and morale, among both our players and fans, was at all-time low. A huge mountain of debt was also choking the sport and it was becoming normal for players, and related staff, to go for months, without being paid. And, given this is the second biggest sporting discipline in the country, this spectacular fall was as depressing, as it was devastating, on the livelihoods of those who depend on it. However, things are looking brighter now, that mountain of debt has been cleared, and there are enough financial reserves, in the Zimbabwe Cricket coffers, to foot their operational costs. But, more importantly, we are finding our way back to playing the kind of competitive cricket which the world has always expected, if not demanded, from us. Our victory in Pakistan last year was a huge win, in terms of our quest to qualify for the next ICC Cricket World Cup, as it earned us 10 points. Pakistan’s series win over South Africa this week, with the Proteas falling in their backyard, show how big our victory on the Asian giant’s soil was very special. And, this week came the kind of news that shows, at least, we are now moving in the right direction, as a cricket playing nation. Our inspirational captain, Sean Williams, was shortlisted among three players for the ICC Cricketer of the Month for March, for his superb performance in our duel against Afghanistan in Abu Dhabi. Williams is a model leader, the kind of captain any sports team wants, who always wants to lead from the front and believes he has to keep setting the benchmark for his teammates. It might not always be the case, because of the unpredictability of sport, but no one can ever question his commitment and that he always tries his best. When a country starts seeing some of its stars being shortlisted, for such prestigious international awards, the message becomes clear that the sun is shining on that particular sporting discipline. With all due respect, we are a very small cricket nation, with a very small player base, and for us to produce one of the three players, in the world, shortlisted for the best performance, is remarkable. It shows, if ever any evidence was needed, that we have found the path back to where we want to go, where we believe we belong, among the top teams. We have always derived a lot of national pride in being one of the two best cricket playing nations in Africa and it’s something we should jealously guard. We have always also derived a lot of national pride in being one of 12 countries, good enough to be considered for Test status, and it’s something we should also guard jealously. There is evidence we are doing so now, even in these tough Covid-19 times, our domestic matches are being played, we are back on international tours and countries are also coming here, with Pakistan being the next set to tour. We all hope Williams will win the award, after his fine performances against Afghanistan because, as he rightly says, it’s what will provide inspiration, for some of our players, to also aim for the stars.