The Herald Ellina Mhlanga-Senior Sports Reporter WITH Zimbabwe awarded two slots for swimming, at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games, the country want the best swimmers to take up those slots. This was revealed by swimming boss, Tracey Doorman. The slots were handed under the Universality entries by the International Swimming Federation. The country got one slot in each section — men and female. Qualification for the Games, to be held from July 23 to August 8, has been a bit difficult and was disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic. “It is been hard for both locally-based and overseas-based swimmers to keep competing, and training, due to the restrictions, making preparation tougher than normal,’’ said Doorman. “At this stage, we cannot give more information except to say those being considered are on the Olympic long-list. “Final selection will be based on FINA points and current performances. “There is a process with Universality places and we were aware that they were possible, and any final decisions will be based on feedback from FINA, and in consultation with ZOC.’’ Zimbabwe Olympic Committee chief executive, Stephen Mudawarima, said they were looking at the long-term picture. And, for the swimmers who will be selected, the Tokyo 2020 Games will be a platform to prepare for 2024. “I think, in terms of our long-term development, it’s actually a very wonderful thing because we are looking at the age-groups of some of the athletes coming through to say this will act as preparation for Paris 2024. “So, we are not really looking at results at this stage but we are looking at these athletes to go there and experience the Olympics. “And, when we come back, they will know exactly what is expected of them for 2024 for 2028,” said Mudawarima. Another sport code that has qualified for the Games so far, is rowing, which qualified a boat, in the men’s single sculls. Athletics, rugby, golf and judo are some of the disciplines still chasing qualification. And, the 4x100m relay team is expected to compete in the World Relays this weekend, in Poland. The top eight automatically qualify for the Olympics. The Zimbabwe Olympic Committee are hoping they can still have, at least, seven athletes qualifying for the Games.