The Herald Sports Reporter PRESIDENT Mnangagwa hailed the Chevrons for their gallant show which helped them beat Pakistan by 19 runs in the second Twenty20I match at Harare Sports Club yesterday. It was Zimbabwe’s first victory, in this format of the game, over the Asian giants. “What a performance from the Chevrons! Congratulations to @ZimCricketv on a historic win today #ZIMvPAK,’’ tweeted the President. The International Cricket Council described the victory as a “historic fightback,’’ in the match report on their official website. “In their 16th attempt, Zimbabwe recorded their first ever T20I win against Pakistan when they defeated the visitors by 19 runs in the second T20I,’’ read the report. “Pakistan were outclassed by a brilliant bowling performance by Zimbabwe, who defended the lowest total of 118 at the Harare Sports Club, to set up the series for the decider. “The hosts were asked to bat and with the return of Brendan Taylor captaining the side in the absence of Sean Williams, who missed out due to an injury. The hosts’ conservative approach in the powerplay resulted in Taylor (5) being forced to play a rash shot, losing his wicket to Faheem Ashraf. “Zimbabwe managed 25/1 in the first six overs with Tinashe Kamunhukamwe and Tadiwanashe Marumani at the crease. The debutant Arshad Iqbal struck with the second breakthrough for Pakistan as he snared his maiden international wicket dismissing Marumani for 13. “Thereafter, Kamunhukamwe’s modus operandi of prudent batting didn’t help Zimbabwe’s cause as he failed to capitalise on his slow start. He became Danish Aziz’s victim — out caught for 34 runs in 40 balls. “The Pakistani bowlers had taken charge of the game from ball one and looked in complete control. Late in the innings, Regis Chakabva (18) and Tarisai Musakanda (13) fought fire with fire but were not able to last for long. “What looked like a comfortable total to chase down, Pakistan was crippled with the early loss of the in-form Mohammad Rizwan (13) and Fakhar Zaman (2) and were reduced to 37/2 in 7.5 overs. “Babar Azam and Mohammad Hafeez then attempted to revive the chase. Hafeez’s lack of runs since his return to the side continued as managed to score just five runs in 10 deliveries. “Babar played a sensible hand of 41 off 45 balls but lack of support from the other end forced him to succumb under rising pressure. “Zimbabwe bowlers rattled the Pakistani middle-order causing a big collapse. From 78/3 in the 16th over, Pakistan were bundled out for 99. “Luke Jongwe starred with the ball for Zimbabwe with his best T20I bowling figures of 4/18 that included the prized wickets of Babar and Rizwan.’’ Inevitably, Twitter exploded, after the events at Harare Sports Club an here are some of the tweets from around the world: What others said “Extraordinary stuff. Zimbabwe defend 119 against an experienced Pakistan, bowling them out for just 99. Congratulations Zimbabwe, a great moment for them. Pakistan minus Rizwan this series – 153/15.’’ — @cric_blog. “A blur of fiery red at the Harare Sports Club. Nice to see, but the reality check it’s given Pakistan this close to the World T20 is hard to overstate.’’ — @Danny61000. “These sort of defeats are inexcusable, I mean we couldn’t get even 100 vs Zim chasing 119 and we had our 1st choice top 4, such a poor performance,’’ — @khurramaziz123. “Have the respect and applaud that performance from Zimbabwe. Showed great energy and commitment in the field, never gave up . . . squeezed the greatest batsman in the game and got their thoroughly deserved win. Congratulations Zimbabwe,’’ — @AatifNawaz. “Zimbabwe, you beauties, what a win!’’ — @Gillian_Price. “Not sure about the quality of the pitch to produce an entertaining match but outstanding effort from Zimbabwe to get a win here,’’ — @worldofBG. “Pakistan all out 99. Zimbabwe by 19 runs their first T20I victory over Pakistan. Series decider Sunday,’’ — @rickeyrecricket. “This is the WORST batting display I have seen from Pakistan in a long, long time. Zimbabwe beat Pakistan for the first time in T20Is after 15 straight losses, people have been saying that our tail starts from two down and today it was quite evident,’’ – @IamIsrarHashmi. “Chased 204 in 18 overs vs South Africa in South Africa, couldn’t chase 119 against Zimbabwe, both matches within ten days, this is Pakistan Cricket. Unpredictable always,’’ — @raoo512. “Really good by Zim and Jongwe & embarrassing from Pakistan, a nice wake-up call with a middle order that hasn’t delivered,’’ — @ZAbbasOfficial.