The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter AWAY from the darkness of Streakgate, there was some cricket, in Harare yesterday, and an excellent game, too. Eagles won an exciting Super Over contest, against Southern Rocks yesterday, to seal their place in the domestic T20 tournament, which ends in the capital, today. Having batted fluently, and put on 163/3 in their allotted 20 overs. Tanaka Chivanga’s outstanding bowling, at the death and in the Super Over, which saw him being voted Player of the Match. He made the difference after Rocks had fought back to level the scores. Rocks were on 163/7, at the end of the innings, forcing the match into an eliminator.  Skipper Chamu Chibhabha had earlier on led from the front, with an unbeaten 73 runs. Wesley Madhevere provided excellent support with his 35 runs from 23 balls. But, half centuries from Cephas Zhuwao (50), and man-of-the-moment, Tadiwanashe Marumani (52), gave the Rocks a fighting chance. Then, Chavhanga provided the tonic for Eagles’ win, after he conceded only six runs, and managed to get a wicket in the Super Over. Experienced hand, Chakabva, who is enjoying great form, took the Eagles to the final, with eight runs from his bat. Facing Blessing Muzarabani, Chakabva only needed three deliveries to put the game in the bag. The first was a dot ball and then he got two runs from the next ball. Chakabva then sealed victory in emphatic fashion, when he sent the tall paceman to the cleaners, with a six. This was Eagles’ third win, in the four round-robin games, and they ended the day sitting on top of the table, with 30 points. They are likely to be joined in the final by Tuskers, who still have a game in hand against winless MidWest Rhinos, this morning.  Tuskers, who were powered on by Craig Ervine’s ton, cemented their place with a 63-run victory over Mountaineers, in an afternoon game, and are now on 20 points, with a healthy net run rate. Man-of-the-Match, Ervine, contributed 120 runs, as Tuskers posted 206/5. Mountaineers could only manage 143 runs and were bowled out in 19.5 overs. Kevin Kasuza top-scored with 46 runs while Ainsley Ndlovu and Luke Jongwe took two wickets apiece for Tuskers.