The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter IN-FORM Zimbabwe all-rounder Roy Kaia has signed with Garstang Cricket Club for their Northern Premier League campaign in England. The 29-year-old, who has had previous stints in England with Cumbria League club Haverigg (2018) and Bognor Regis in the Sussex League in 2019, is set for a new adventure after a good run of form with both bat and ball. Garstang announced that they have signed the Zimbabwe Test debutant as replacement for Indian run machine Punit Bisht, whose contract was affected by the Covid-19 restrictions in his home country. “Garstang CC are delighted to announce the signing of new Zimbabwean professional Roy Kaia.  Roy continued his good domestic form by scoring 48 on his Test debut versus Pakistan and is looking forward to joining the club. “He is a middle order batsman, and off-spin bowler who has two seasons UK experience. Unfortunately, due to Covid-19 restrictions, the club had to cancel the contract with Punit Bisht, but everyone wishes Punit the best,” said Garstang on their Facebook. Kaia was supposed to return to Bognor in both 2020 and 2021, but the move was curtailed by the Covid-19 pandemic restrictions. However, after the ‘red list’ hit India, Garstang was quick to sign the Zimbabwean star to replace their original pro, Punit Bisht. Kaia has been a standout performer in Zimbabwe’s domestic cricket where he finished as the Man of the tournament for both the inaugural National Premier League and the traditional first class Logan Cup. He played a big part in Takashinga’s win in the NPL before leading Southern Rocks to their first ever Logan Cup silverware. Kaia has proved himself in the domestic first class competition, Logan Cup, for the past few years and he won the tournament four times in succession. He won it thrice with Mountaineers before his latest success with Southern Rocks. The 29-year-old was crowned the Man of the Tournament. He finished as the tournament’s top run-getter with 374 runs from four innings. He was also crowned the best bowler for his 12 wickets. Kaia’s fine performances on the domestic cricket scene were recognized after he was named in the 15-member squad to face Pakistan. He fell just two runs short of what would have been a memorable half century, on début, on the first day, of the first Test, at Harare Sports Club on Thursday. Coming in at 30-4, Kaia top-scored for Zimbabwe, hitting 48 from 94 balls with seven boundaries, which helped his side to a first-innings total of 176.