The Herald Sports Reporter HARARE Athletic Board is set to hold two selection competitions in preparation for the Inter-provincial Championships slated for May 22. The province’s selection process will start with the Mr Pace Challenge on May 9. Athletes will get another chance to battle for places in the provincial team when they compete in the Amen Academy Championships on May 15. Both competitions will take place at the National Sports Stadium, the same venue that will host the inter-provincial meet. Some of the events on offer include 100m, 200m, 400m, 800m, 1 500m, 5 000 and 10 000m. HAB vice chairperson, Aaron Whyte confirmed they will be using the two competitions to pick their team. “We are going to use two events, we don’t want to use one event, so we are going to use the Mr Pace Challenge and then the Amen Championships. “So what we are trying to do is we are trying to balance the events because we cannot do all the events on one day. So some of the events that we are not doing on the Mr Pace competition, we will have them on the Amen Championships. “For example hurdles, we are not having hurdles on the 9th but on the 15th we are going to have hurdles,” said Whyte. Harare had their first track and field event on April 17 and some of their juniors attended the National Junior Championships held in Bulawayo on Sunday. Whyte says they are anticipating stiff competition for the upcoming competitions. “We expect it to be lit because if the competitions that we have done so far are anything to go by, we are expecting high standard competition. “When we went to Bulawayo, we had one of our youngsters, Kudakwashe Chadenga, setting a new junior national record (in high jump) and that’s something that’s very commendable. “We have got also Takudzwa Chiyangwa, who is running very well, so we are expecting these youngsters to challenge the seniors. So the seniors should actually be weary of the young athletes and the competition is going to be very tough,” said Whyte. Being the hosts for the inter-provincial meet, Whyte said they are hoping to field a strong team on May 22.