The Herald LONDON. — Manchester United inflicted further damage on Tottenham’s hopes of making the Premier League’s top four as they came from behind to secure a fully deserved 3-1 away victory yesterday. Spurs went into this game knowing victory would keep them in touch with the Champions League places but another colourless performance led to what could be an expensive defeat. Edinson Cavani thought he had given United a first-half lead with a smooth finish from Paul Pogba’s pass but the goal was controversially ruled out by referee, Chris Kavanagh, following a video assistant referee consultation after Scott McTominay caught Son Heung-min with his trailing arm. ‘’It was an excellent [disallowed] goal. Unfortunately the referee decided we are not playing football or VAR decided probably,’’ said United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer. “I’m absolutely shocked if that is a foul. If that was my son and he stays down and he needs his mates to help him up, he doesn’t get food because that’s embarrassing. “Edinson Cavani has been here for a season and worked really hard to get up to match fitness. It’s been a horrendous year for all of us with the pandemic. ‘’There is some doubt in his head but he has not made up his mind [about a new contract]. He deserves to have the fans cheering that movement and goal. It’s something we haven’t had for a long time. “I feel we played very good. I think we scored some excellent goals. You see the results earlier today, to have seven points more than the team in third is big for us. We want to see how close we can get to the top. “I love seeing these boys come together in adversity. They pulled together.” United’s sense of injustice was increased when Son put Spurs ahead before the break but the visitors recovered impressively for a win that leaves them 11 points behind leaders Manchester City with a game in hand. Fred was involved in the build-up and conclusion of the equaliser after 57 minutes, pouncing after Spurs keeper Hugo Lloris had saved well from Cavani. And, Cavani finally got the goal his superb movement and constant menace deserved with 11 minutes left when he launched himself to head beyond Lloris from substitute Mason Greenwood’s cross. Greenwood completed the formalities with virtually the last kick of the game as he provided a finish that was too powerful for Lloris at his near post. Manchester United ended the first half feeling as if the world was against them, wounded by the decision to rule out Cavani’s goal and then hit by Son’s opener. ‘Keeper Dean Henderson, now seemingly first choice ahead of David de Gea, made a couple of saves with his legs and Cavani was fortunate when a header bounced off his own post but United were by far the better team and had plenty of chances of their own at the other end. Pogba and Fred were also outstanding contributors in midfield for United, who have now opened up a seven-point gap between themselves and Leicester City, who lost 2-3 at West Ham, in third. United are an enigmatic side, clearly full of talent and danger and yet often not at their best, but no-one could deny their quality here and no-one could begrudge them a very fine victory. Greenwood’s late goal may have extended Manchester United’s victory margin more than Spurs manager Jose Mourinho would feel was justified but he can have no serious complaints about the final outcome. Match stats — Mourinho’s worst league season for defeats Spurs boss Jose Mourinho is winless in his past five home matches against sides he has previously managed (D2 L3), having won 12 in a row between 2002 and 2018. He has suffered 10 league defeats in a single season for the first time in his entire managerial career. In English top-flight history, Manchester United’s current 23-game unbeaten run away from home in the league (W15 D8) is bettered only by a 27-game run from Arsenal between April 2003 and September 2004. Manchester United have gained 28 points from losing positions in the Premier League this season – in the competition’s history, only Newcastle in 2001-02 (34) and Manchester United themselves in 2012-13 (29) have earned more points from such positions. Son Heung-min became the first player to score three or more goals against Manchester United in a single Premier League campaign since Sergio Aguero in 2014-15. Manchester United’s Fred scored just the second goal of his career in the Premier League, with his previous one coming against Wolves in September 2018; his equaliser ended a run of 73 shots without scoring in the competition. Only Wayne Rooney (15) has scored more Premier League goals for Manchester United as a teenager than Mason Greenwood (13). — BBC Sport.