The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter AFTER getting the greenlight to resume training, some Rainbow Amateur Netball League teams feels they are not given full information, about the way forward. However, league secretary-general, Moses Gukurume, insist they have kept everyone informed. There have been allegations the league are yet to send out official written statements, to the clubs, following the approval by the Government, for the sport code to resume, last month. Netball was last played in March last year before action was suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Information has been sent to clubs, via their team managers to respond to how prepared they are, as regards the guidelines on Covid-19 protocols,’’ said Gukurume. “In the event that we are to start our games, what playing format can be adopted, which is safe and secure, and meets all the guidelines stated by the Government. “Unfortunately, only Ngezi Platinum is the only team which has responded. This lack of communication from our teams, has affected our planning. “All things being equal, we should have started our games, by mid-April 2021.’’ RANL are also yet to conduct their elective general meeting, which will pave way, for the start of the league. The clubs claim they are trapped in a web of uncertainty, at the moment, because they’re yet to receive any official statement from the league, except for some interactions, on a WhatsApp group. Only a few clubs have since started their training while others are waiting for the league to send them an official statement. “We deal with professional organisations, they are waiting for the league to communicate on how we are going to go about our things. ‘’If we are to start testing and vaccinate then we do. As it stands now we are in the dark,” a club official told The Saturday Herald Sport. Another wrote: “Personally I am more worried about the resumption of these RANL games. “We have the core leaders who are, automatically in, but they are too quiet. ‘’Rise up our leaders, this is the right time we need you. “Research on how RSA resumed these games and follow suit. “This silence is destroying the team’s confidence. This is the time they need your day to day motivation. I hope I’m not too loud. “Honestly, we cannot deal with WhatsApp messages to claim money from our directors. We were hoping there will be some form of formal communication.” Netball was given the greenlight to resume in March.