The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’s football history can never be complete without mentioning talented former Black Aces and Chibuku Shumba forward, Bernard “Machipisa” Dzingayi. This is according to the man, who was running the administration of the two clubs, when Dzingayi was at the peak of his powers. His name is Loveridge Maenzanise. He even comes close to tears when he starts narrating how Dzingayi repeatedly tormented Dynamos defender, Isaac Nhema. “Bernard Dzingayi arrived at Chibuku Shumba in 1974. I was the team administrator,’’ said Maenzanise. ‘’He was a No.10 but (coach, Jack Meagher) would convert him into a winger. “He was coming from Sables and what a player he was, he was one of the new signings, together with David Muchineripi from Rufaro Rovers, Sunday Marimo (Chidzambwa), Simon Mudzudzu and July Sharara from Metal Box. “Other new arrivals included Stephen Chuma, goalie Posani Sibanda, Victor Mapanda and John Garatsa, who joined from Wankie.” It was during his stint at Chibuku Shumba that Dzingayi was drafted into the senior national team by coach, Billy Asprey, in 1975. His first game was against a Bantu Select of South Africa, which was made up of black players only. The likes of Ephraim “Shakes” Mashaba, and Jomo Sono, were in that team which played a double-header, winning 2-1, in the first encounter, before forcing a goalless draw, in the reverse fixture. In the four years Dzingai spent at Chibuku Shumba, he helped the club win the Castle Cup, in 1974, before clinching the league championship, and the Chibuku Trophy, the following year. And in 1976, the club’s sponsors, Chibuku Breweries, decided to stop bankrolling the outfit. But, they pledged to help wean the team out, if the squad could retain, at least 15 players, from the 1976 list. Only three players, including Chidzambwa who went to join Dynamos, decided to move. “That is how we formed Black Aces. Dzingayi is a founder member of Aces and the first coach was Jimmy Finch. “I moved from Chibuku Shumba and retained my position at Black Aces and I was also doubling up as the team’s welfare manager. “By that time, Dzingayi was already a star of the game. He was not an outstanding goal-scorer but, definitely, one of the finest left-wingers of his time. “He retired early, though, and he pursued other things but I believe he would have gone places had he played beyond 26,” Maenzanise said. At Aces, Dzingayi also played with a number of gifted players such as Daniel Chikanda, Simon Mudzudzu, Peter Manyara, Fresh Chamarenga, Rodrick Muganhiri, Clever Hunda, Wonder Chisetera, Charles Gwazvo, Bernard and George Kuwana, Byron “Piri Piri” Manuel, Booker Muchenu and Alwyn Hagen. Dzingayi is survived by a son, Tinashe.