The Herald Dr Masimba Mavaza Correspondent The 18th of April 2021 is Zimbabwe’s birthday, it is our Independence Day. It is a date that binds Zimbabweans of all tribes, all colours, all political parties, together. The past 41 years must teach us that as a nation we cannot be consumed by our petty differences anymore. It is common purpose which unites us as one. We must be united in our common interests. As a nation we must fight for our right to live, to exist and to co-exist. And as we come together as one, our Independence Day will no longer be known as a Zimbabwean holiday, but as the day when all realise that Zimbabwe is bigger than a political party. On the same strength, we must learn that we must not want to govern at all cost, but we must thrive to govern in the best interest of our nation and above all our people. It gives us great pleasure to know that all Zimbabweans living in the country and abroad, on the eve of the 41st Independence Day have outgrown selfish and immature politics. April 18th fills us with excitement, taking part in celebrations and listening to patriotic songs. On this day, the youth of Zimbabwe should feel the special pride of being citizens of a free nation. We gratefully remember our freedom fighters and martyrs whose sacrifices have enabled us to live in an independent nation. The ethos of our freedom and struggle forms the foundation of modern Zimbabwe. Our visionary leaders brought together a diversity of world views to forge a common national spirit. They were committed to the cause of liberating Zimbabwe from oppressive foreign rule and securing the future of her children. Their thoughts and actions shaped the identity of Zimbabwe as a modern nation. Zimbabwe must swim in the self-evident truths, that all men are created equal, and that their Creator endows them with certain unalienable rights, including life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, as said by the late American President Thomas Jefferson. Without the assurance that blood would be shed in her defense, Zimbabwe very well may have remained lifeless. We are fortunate that our heroes became the guiding light of our freedom movement. With President Mnangagwa at the helm, Zimbabwe is poised for unprecedented growth because of his leadership. His quest for equality and justice is now the mantra for Zimbabwe. Zimbabwe rejoices in seeing the younger generation re-discover the purpose to live and to be in Zimbabwe. The Independence Day celebrations this year will be rather restrained. The reason is obvious. The whole world confronts a deadly virus which has disrupted all activities and taken a huge toll. Covid-19 has altered the world we lived in before the pandemic. It is very reassuring to note that President Mnangagwa, while anticipating the tremendous challenge, responded to Covid-19 effectively and well in time. For a country so vast and diverse with a high population density, meeting this challenge requires extra efforts. All governments took measures against Covid-19 in accordance with local circumstances. People also supported the efforts whole-heartedly. With our committed efforts, we have succeeded in containing the magnitude of the pandemic and saving a large number of lives. This is worth emulating by the wider world. Zimbabwe has become one of the countries which has shown a serious commitment in vaccinating its people without discrimination. The Government of President Mnangagwa summarizes and eloquently explains out why our founding fathers would not only seek, but demand independence from the Crown in London The spirit of freedom will prevail even in the face of detractors and our youth should be willing to stand up and face enemies of freedom. As we celebrate independence, we honour the memory of those who boldly declared fought for it. We thank those who continue to show the bravery and selflessness required to keep us independent. As we celebrate independence, Zimbabwe and its leadership is indebted to doctors, nurses and other health workers who have been continuously on the forefront of our fight against Covid-19. Unfortunately, some of them, including Cabinet ministers, ambassadors and soldiers have lost their lives battling the pandemic. Some of them might not have been buried at heroes acre, but they remain our heroes. All these warriors who fought against Covid-19 deserve high praises. They did much beyond their call of duty to save lives and ensure essential services were available. With very limited resources they stood their ground for us as a nation and as a people. These doctors, health workers, members of the Covid-19 management teams, police, delivery staff, transportation, providers of various services, government employees, social service organisations and generous citizens have been scripting inspiring stories of courage and selfless service. They risk their own lives to save our lives and livelihood. Amid such onslaughts of disasters, it is gratifying to see all sections of society coming together to help those in distress through the leadership of President Mnangagwa. Zimbabwe is 41 for a reason. They say life begins at 40, so the New Dispensation has given Zimbabweans a new beginning, a new life.