The Herald Senior Arts Reporter Organisers of this year’s Mr and Miss Albinism Zimbabwe pageant have announced that the South African duo of designer MJ Likhoele and an actress living with albinism, Regina Mary Ndlovu, will grace this year’s edition. The pageant, which is scheduled to take place on April 21 at Stephen Margolis Resort, will be held virtually under the Covid-19 regulations and restrictions. A total of 16 contestants will battle it out for the coveted title at a ceremony with no audience in attendance. Only the judges will be present. Pageant director and founder Brenda Mudzimu said in an interview that preparations for the pageant were at an advanced stage. “We are happy that preparations are on course and this year’s edition is with a difference as there is no audience, but locals will watch the show on social media pages on the day as we are in talks with some social media streaming services providers, Nash TV,” she said. “The South African team, which comprises of fashion designer MJ Likhoele and actress Regina Mary Ndlovu, have confirmed their participation. We had invited songstress PJ Powers, but she could not make it due to other commitments.” Mudzimu said there was no boot-camp this year due to Covid-19 and all the participants will be screened  for before the event. “There is no boot-camp for the girls, but they have so far received morale and words of encouragement from United Nations Independent Expert, Ikoponwosa Ero, on the enjoyment of human rights by persons with albinism,” she said. “Ero wished the girls their very best. Unfortunately, she is no longer coming too, but she was scheduled to be one of our guests of honour.” Mudzimu said they got some stakeholders and sponsors who came on board to assist with prizes. “Mr and Miss Albinism Zimbabwe winners will fly to Victoria Falls courtesy of Fastjet,” she said. “We have other consolation prizes and we have even talked to the girls about the prizes and they are all aware and understand it. Our goal is on raising awareness on issues to do with albinism.” The last edition of the pageant was held on May 26 in 2019 and 18-year-old model Ayanda Candice Sibanda was crowned the winner.