The Herald Blessings Chidakwa Herald Reporter THE Office of the President and Cabinet, which is the lead office in formulating, implementing, and monitoring Government policies says it is inspired by the Second Republic tangible successes to make sure that the country realises its Vision 2030 to become an upper middle-class economy. In a statement ahead of tomorrow’s Independence Day celebrations, the Chief Secretary to the President and Cabinet Dr Misheck Sibanda said the country is celebrating its 41st independence Day on the backdrop of major successes that have been scored by the Second Republic under the leadership of President Mnangagwa. “As the lead office in the formulation, monitoring and implementation of Government policies, programmes, and projects, we once again commit ourselves to efficient service to the entire State machinery under the Whole of Government Approach,” he said. “The launch of the National Development Strategy 1: 2021-2025 in January this year inspires us to devote all our energies to the upliftment of livelihoods as the nation seeks to attain the objectives of a knowledge and technology-driven upper-middle-income society as encapsulated in Vision 2030.” He said the country is celebrating this year’s independence with added significance, in view of the successes, the Second Republic has achieved in the past year, chief among them being the stabilisation of the economy. “Under his Excellency the President’s wise stewardship, consolidation of the gains from the Transitional Stabilisation Programme created a resilient economy that equipped the nation with the resources to fight the pandemic,” he said. “As with every other nation, precious lives are being lost to the scourge, but effective mitigatory strategies have spared us the worst and kept the nation united. “The robust response, including through the $18 billion rescue and stimulus package, assisted the private and informal sectors to absorb the unprecedented shocks and emerge stronger.” Dr Sibanda said it is against this background that the 41st independence celebrations are befittingly being held under the theme, “Zimbabwe at 41 Together, growing our economy for a prosperous, resilient and inclusive.” “Industries in general, and socio-economic sectors such as health, education, energy, water, roads, transport which came under severe strain and even closed are reopening amid renewed hope of sustained growth. “Schools have successfully reopened while, on another front, the nation is assured of a bumper harvest that has been made possible through the grace of the almighty when the heavens opened up for a successful 2020/21 agricultural season,” he said. Dr Sibanda said the Second Republic’s robust input support schemes and mechanization programmes for the various farmer categories ensured that the nation restores household and national food security, while at the same time reviving agro-based industrial enterprises. “As the nation celebrates its 41st Independence Day Anniversary, we urge the entire nation to heed his Excellency the President’s clarion for all; to embrace the vaccination programme currently underway in order to save lives and build a healthy and productive nation,” he said.