The Herald XINHUA – Celebrations of the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China (CPC) mark a history of “sacrifice” and “extraordinary success” that reformist leaders over the world can learn from, said Jorge Taiana, head of international relations for Argentina’s Justicialist Party (PJ). “The 100 years of the CPC depict a history of sacrifice, but also one of extraordinary success,” Taiana, a senator for the Frente de Todos (Everybody’s Front) coalition, told Xinhua in a recent interview. It is “extraordinary” that China has recently announced its “complete victory” in eradicating absolute poverty, noted Taiana, who served as Argentina’s foreign minister from 2005 to 2010. The link between Argentina and China goes beyond “merely commercial,” he added. “We have a comprehensive strategic partnership, and we have called it that because it is a relationship that has grown over time, and it is a relationship that has gone beyond trade exchange,” he said.  “China is a very important partner. It is a partnership that is going to grow and not just in trade, because it grows in economic complementation, it grows in investment and in the development of infrastructure, which in Argentina’s case presents a possibility of learning a lot from the Chinese experience of infrastructure development in a relatively short period of time,” said Taiana. “China and Argentina share several points on the international agenda, such as the defense of peace, the defense of multilateralism, the peaceful resolution of disputes, non-interference in the internal affairs of other nations and, above all, the defense of territorial integrity, very important issues for both China and Argentina,” he said. Ties between the CPC and the PJ are rooted in history, and their cooperation has developed and grown, he noted. “We are very proud of the excellent ties we have with the Communist Party of China, and I, as the person in charge of foreign affairs, am very happy about that,” Taiana said. (Video reporters: Ni Ruijie, Kang Wenjun; Video editor: Chen Sihong, Lin Lin, Zhu Cong)