The Herald PETER Muduhwa’s manager, Gibson Mahachi, says lack of game time was the main reason why they triggered the player’s contract termination with Tanzanian side, Simba SC. The Warriors defender signed a six-month loan deal in January but was frozen out, three months into his tenure, at the club. The 27-year-old Highlanders player was lured by the ambitious club, soon after the conclusion of the CHAN finals, with the hope of reinforcing their defence, for the CAF Champions League. Since his arrival, the club played five Champions League group matches, where he did not feature. They have already qualified for the quarter-finals. He only managed to make the travelling squad, when they went for the group opening match against AS Vita of DR Congo but, unfortunately, he did not play. “They signed him specifically for the CAF Champions League only because their window in the local league was already closed. “So, we expected him to be getting game time since he is a competent and good player but he has not been given a chance and we feel it’s a bit unfair, on his part, despite his earnings. “He is a good player, the coach likes him very much but we are still opting to conclude his contract termination today (Wednesday) or tomorrow (yesterday) if all goes well. “The Zimbabwean league is about to return so he will come and start playing for Highlanders while we make better arrangements for him,” Mahachi told PanAfricanFootball. The domestic Premiership is expected to get underway next month, after over year off, owing to Covid-19 restrictions. Contrary to reports Muduhwa’s exit was triggered by a wrangle between Mahachi and George Deda, the former stressed that it was purely for professional reasons. “It’s better off for him to come back home and play in Zimbabwe where he is guaranteed game time rather than to spent six months without playing. “Being a good player, Muduhwa can attract any club in Africa. As you all know, he once captured the sights of Sudanese clubs. “Although nothing materialised, I am hopeful that we can get more and better clubs, vying for his services,” said Mahachi. — Panafricanfootball.com