The Herald Ellina Mhlanga -Senior Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Handball Federation are looking getting their activities rolling after holding their induction on Saturday at Harare’s Girls High School where they discussed some of their plans for the year. The meeting was attended by the national executive led by ZHF president, Beauty Mutsambiwa, and provincial chairpersons. The technical team as well as the Women’s Commission, Athletes Commission, Referees Commission and Coaches Commission members also attended. ZHF secretary-general Edson Chirowodza said the induction paves the way for the national federation to get their programmes underway. “First of all the induction was meant to standardise or to make sure that every administrative leader voted at provincial and national level are all inducted, so that we all have the same picture and direction in terms of what is expected upon each and every member. “It was more like unveiling roles of each leader in terms of what they are expected to deliver in their positions. “We discussed our annual plan so that everyone works towards what is expected. So the induction involved the technical commission and the administrative board, so that we bridge the gap between the technical and administrative board. It was meant to have a shared vision and direction,” said Chirowodza. For 2021, the local handball motherbody is looking at establishing a sustainable national league and is hoping it comes to fruition. Over the years some provinces and clubs have been struggling because of financial constraints, hindering the efforts to have a well-run and competitive league. “Now we look forward to starting our activities in provinces and at national level, we got clearance. Everyone now knows what is expected of them in terms of resumption of sport. “One of the target is to establish a sustainable national league. In the past we have had challenges. Most clubs were struggling to fulfil their fixtures. “We are planning to start a long term development programme of a national team for the ladies as well as development of junior coaches,” said Chirowodza. So far they have had a camp for the Under-21 men’s side as they slowly resume some of their programmes.