The Herald First Mutual Health is one of the leading medical aid insurance schemes in Zimbabwe and provides exceptional medical aid packages and cover at competitive rates. Through its innovative packages, which range from affordable general medical cover to more comprehensive private medical aid cover plans, we offer our members excellent medical insurance, peace of mind and value for money than any other medical aid in Zimbabwe. Our products are designed to cater for the needs of both individual and corporate clients. With thousands of members cutting across a wide spectrum of the market from non-profit making organisations, government institutions, mining, education, individuals and commerce, we offer the perfect blend of experience, agility and innovation to service our membership exceptionally. The fund is ISO 9001:2015 certified in line with our commitment to continually improve service delivery to our stakeholders Our product 0ffering Our products are designed to cater for the needs of both individual and corporate clients. Corporate plans We offer you a diverse range of corporate plans available in two categories; Gold & Bronze catering for your specific healthcare and financial needs in both Zimbabwe dollars and in US dollars. Our plans are unique in that they pay out a cash back bonus for all individuals who have a low claims experience. They are comprehensive and cover individuals of different income levels from low income to executive levels. Member benefits are paid per membership year up to prescribed benefit limits per plan. Gold category The benefits and contributions are in US dollars which bring stability in terms of pricing and benefits to ensure they do not lag behind market changes. This mitigates the current issues regarding shortfalls in the healthcare environment. Bronze category The standard category is suitable for clients who wish to keep their medical aid contributions at a fixed and predictable level.  Due to the volatile economic environment, members may encounter shortfalls. However, our team mitigates shortfalls through the establishment of in-house services and preferred provider partnerships with service providers. Individual Plans First Mutual Health has unique plans meant for individual clients from the very low cost Micromed plan to private hospital plans for both those below 65 and those over 65 years. The private hospital plans are available in USD and local currency.  The Micromed plan is available in local currency only. Micromed Plan This is a low-cost high benefit plan that augments worldwide efforts towards universal health coverage (UHC). The plan provides members with cover for drugs, inpatient and outpatient care at government, mission and municipal facilities as per the terms and conditions of the plan. Sign up for Micromed is easy and can be done from the comfort of your phone.  You simply dial *712# today for mobile registration or contact our teams. Pearl Plan This product is a private hospital plan designed for individuals that provides access to grade A private hospitals around the country. The plan caters for members below the age of 65 at inception. The plan recognises the need by customers to have access to quality healthcare that has been predominantly the preserve of those in the corporate sectors who could join as groups. Garnet Plan This product is a private hospital plan designed for individuals that provides access to grade A private hospitals around the country. The plan caters for the senior citizens in our communities who are above the age of 65 at inception. The plan recognises the need by customers to have access to quality healthcare and the need by individuals in society who were previously marginalised because of age. Individual Foreign Currency Plans These plans provide cover in USD to individuals and SMEs at very competitive rates for generous benefit limits. Pearl Gold Plan This product is a private hospital plan designed for individuals that provide access to grade A private hospitals around the country. This plan allows for admission of individuals in general wards of a private hospital and foreign specialist treatment. The plan caters for members below the age of 60 at inception. Pearl Gold Executive Plan This product is a private hospital plan designed for individuals, to provide access to grade A private hospitals around the country. This plan allows for admission of members in private wards at private hospitals and foreign specialist treatment. The plan caters for members below the age of 60 at inception. Benefits of joining FMH Medical Benefits All plans ensure members get cover for essential health care at government and private facilities. These include; Hospitalisation, Drugs, Pathology, Specialised Radiology, Dental, Optical, Pathology & Rehabilitative Services Managed Care First Mutual Health offers a managed healthcare support structure for members with chronic conditions by ensuring ease of access to medication at designated pharmacies countrywide without shortfalls or nominal shortfalls. The drug facility is designed to help members access the chronic drugs easily and support to subscribed members is in the form of calls, SMS, hospital visits and drug facility access. Covid-19 Cover The cover is subject to the terms and conditions applicable per product category.  All First Mutual Health members are covered at no extra cost to the member. The fund will cover the following: Pathology Pre-admission COVID-19 testing for members being admitted into hospital. Drugs Prescription Drugs excluding over the counter medicines, vitamins and supplements. Vaccination We are also in the process of procuring additional vaccines for all members in conjunction with the Association of Health Funders of Zimbabwe (AHFoZ) and the Ministry of Health. Our team is available to conduct awareness sessions to our valued clients who may require these Covid-19 Recovery Packs These are available free of charge to members to aid in recovery in the case they contract the Covid-19 upon the provision of a positive PCR test. Hospitalisation Hospitalisation up to the benefit limit per plan. Counselling Services Counselling service is available to all members requiring psychological support related to COVID -19. Other Value-Added Benefits Over and above the medical cover, members get the following benefits: Low Claims Account Cash Back Free Funeral Cover Free Life-med Guarantor Cover – this provides free cover to dependents for a period of 3 months in the event of the death of the principal member 1stCare Wellness Benefits – this is a benefit that covers physical individual wellness, managed care and psychological well-being of members among others. First Mutual Health Services We provide quality healthcare services at our facilities Harare clinic services First Mutual Health Services currently has one clinic in Harare and services to outer towns will be rolled out in due course. General Practitioner Consultation Nurse Consultation HIV Testing and Counselling (HTC) General Counselling ARV Treatment Annual Wellness Checks Family Planning methods Pap Smear Vaccinations Patient Observations & Follow-ups Clinic contact details Ground Floor Bryanston House No. 9 George Silundika Avenue [Between First Street & Angwa Street] Harare Telephone: 798 493 / 798491 -6 Clinic Opening Hours: Monday to Friday: 8am to 6pm Saturday: 8am to 12:30pm The clinic is closed on Sundays and public holidays. For medical aid enquiries, visit any of our branches nationwide or contact us on the following numbers: Call centre 08677007432 / 0242 251440 WhatsApp only number 0778917309