The Herald Precious Manomano Herald Reporter Cases of gender-based violence and infidelity among married couples in Hurungwe have become a widespread social ill that has led to the collapse of many marriages in the area and both are now subject to severe penalties at the local traditional courts. Chief Chundu, Mr Abel Mbasera, said there were high incidences of gender based violence and infidelity among both married women and men in Hurungwe, which needed to be addressed. Violence has never been a solution and so if someone could not control their emotions and overreacted leading to injury to a spouse or a partner, this could lead to many problems. “In some instances, spouses resort to violence in cases where they discover that one’s partner has been in a promiscuous relationship leading to serious consequences,” said Chief Chundu. He said it was worrisome and disheartening to see cheating partners especially these days of HIV and AIDS. Chief Chundu now imposes a stiff penalty on the perpetrators of violence and in infidelity cases involving married couples. He urged people to be faithful and also to find satisfaction with what they have and not lust for other things. “ l force cheating partners, especially the men, to compensate with two beasts to the real husband. I usually do this as a way to end infidelity but still cases are going up everyday,” said Chief Chundu. “Be satisfied with your partners, do not crave for what you do not have. A marriage is an important union which is not supposed to be tampered with anymore. Respect each other in marriages,” he said. Chief Chundu argued that the society do not allow men and women to sleep around. Hurungwe villagers expressed their own views on why infidelity and gender based violence cases were so high in their area. Mrs Maria Matare said infidelity and gender based violence can not be separated, those who fight each other everyday are likely to be cheating. “Spouses respond violently in the event they discover their partners have cheated on them because they fail to control the emotions that overwhelm them whether male or female,” she said. “It is also something that has to do with the upbringing and socialisation when we got into marriage.” Mr Tendai Baka said the best course of action to take when a spouse has cheated is divorce, because the cheating spouse could bring diseases into the relationship. “When your wife commits infidelity the best way to deal with this situation is to go the courts and divorce because she will infect you with diseases such as HIV and Aids. Research has shown that children who come from broken families would not find it easy in life. Infidelity and violence drive out happiness from the family leaving animosity and bitterness between family members. More education is required to stress out the importance of a stable family so that people know the value of a stable family.