The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWEAN midfielder Thabani Kamusoko has signed a one-year contract extension at Zambian football club ZESCO United. The club announced yesterday that they have tied down the attacking midfielder, who has been with the club since 2019. ZESCO United Technical Chairman, Peter Mutale, told the club’s media department shortly after agreeing to terms with the veteran midfielder that they were excited by his commitment. “We are extremely delighted to secure Kamusoko’s services for another one-year. He is an excellent player and a very professional man to work with,” he said. Kamusoko has been key to ZESCO United’s resurgence in the 2020/21 FAZ/MTN Super League, scoring four goals.  His initial two-year contract with the club was due to expire in July this year. “He has contributed a lot to the success of the team by scoring very important goals for the club. His leadership skills on and off the pitch have also proved vital to most of our young players who are currently trying to find their feet at the club,” said Mutale. The dread-locked Zimbabwean midfielder, who was part of the Warriors squad for the 2019 AFCON finals in Egypt, joined ZESCO United in 2019 from Tanzanian giants, Young Africans. The Zambians were impressed by his brilliant showing for the Warriors at the 2019 COSAFA Cup tournament in South Africa where they reached the semi-finals. The 33-year-old told the club’s website that his decision to stay in Ndola was purely based on the positive attributes he found at the club. “This is a fantastic football club which has helped me excel as a player. The environment is great, we work as a team, which I feel is crucial for any footballer to grow and develop on and off the pitch,” he said. The ZESCO United attacking midfielder further added that the club has helped him reclaim his place in the Zimbabwe national team under new coach, Zdravko Logarusic. “ZESCO United is a big football club in Africa. Playing for this team has seen me earn more international call-ups at the national level. I will work hard to repay the club and fans for this opportunity they have granted me,” he said.