The Herald Alec Masocha -Sports reporter THE Footballers Union of Zimbabwe have given Premiership clubs surprise cheer ahead of the restart of the domestic football by donating Covid-19 gear. The organisation donated face masks, hand sanitisers and a bag to every football player for use when going for training, as a way of equipping them in the current environment. FUZ secretary-general Thomas Sweswe told The Herald that they are determined to see football being played this year and will contribute in their own way to assist the players countrywide. So far four clubs in Harare – Dynamos, CAPS United, Harare City and Craneborne Bullets – have benefitted. “We are rolling out the programme starting with the teams that are in Harare. We will also be visiting teams outside Harare depending on the schedules they give us. “We are going to donate to all the teams in the Premiership and also to women’s football teams. From there, we go downwards to Division One teams for both men and women. “As a players’ union, part of our mandate is to ensure that our members’ health is top priority. We are mindful that the third wave of Covid-19 is a growing threat,” said Sweswe. FUZ kicked off their programme by visiting giants Dynamos and CAPS united at their training sessions on Wednesday and interacted with players. Then yesterday they donated to Harare City and Premiership newboys, Craneborne Bullets. Craneborne Bullets head coach Nesbert Saruchera was touched by the gesture. “They visited our training ground today (yesterday) and they distributed goodies to players before we started training. We thank them for what they have done, they are doing a good job for our players. “It also helps to cushion budgets for Premiership clubs since every club at the moment is expected to sponsor its own programmes against the spread of the coronavirus,” said Saruchera. Sweswe said the organization, which was formed in 2001 with the aim of safeguarding the social and economic vulnerability of players and former players, was fulfilling its mandate. FUZ have also undertaken to address the welfare of former players in need of assistance during difficult times.