The Herald LONDON . — Treble-chasing Manchester City face a Tottenham Hotspur side desperate to end their trophy drought in the League Cup final tomorrow. The showdown pits two members of the failed European Super League at Wembley tomorrow. Just seven days after the bombshell revelation that City and Tottenham were among 12 clubs plotting the breakaway Super League, they will contest the first major silverware of the English season. Alarmed by the furious public backlash against the Super League, City’s Abu Dhabi-based owners were the first to lose their nerve when they pulled out on Tuesday. City’s exit sparked a chain reaction that saw Tottenham withdraw along with fellow English Premier League teams Liverpool, Chelsea, Manchester United and Arsenal. The tournament was dead in the water only 48 hours after its launch. But amid grovelling apologies from owners, supporters remain furious at the cynical betrayal and there have been calls for sanctions against the six English Premier League teams. Against that explosive backdrop, it is ironic the League Cup will be the focus of attention for two of the Super League founders this weekend. If the competition – effectively a closed-shop replacement for the Champions League – had gone ahead, it was said the increased midweek fixture list could have killed off the League Cup. Given both clubs would gladly have turned their backs on the League Cup forever, it would be no surprise if there are protesters and dissenting voices among the 8 000 fans allowed into Wembley this weekend. But, for City manager, Pep Guardiola, and Tottenham caretaker boss, Ryan Mason, the goal in the build-up to the final, has been keeping their players focused on the pitch, rather than letting the Super League furore distract them. After beating Aston Villa 2-1 on Wednesday, City need eight points from their last five league games to win the English title for a third time in four seasons. On Wednesday, they take on Paris Saint-Germain in the Champions League semi-final first leg. City midfielder Kevin De Bruyne is a doubt with the foot injury suffered in last weekend’s quadruple-ending FA Cup semifinal defeat against Chelsea. With the PSG tie looming, Guardiola must decide whether to play Phil Foden, whose goal and influential display against Villa maintained the 20-year-old’s emergence as one of City’s key men. “I’ve known him about five years, since he was a little boy and he’s showed his quality, no doubt about that,” City midfielder Fernandinho said. “He’s matured and is taking the actions better. He’s been awesome.” Tottenham arrive at Wembley wounded by a week that saw Jose Mourinho sacked on Monday, just days after Harry Kane suffered the latest in a long line of ankle injures. Kane missed Tottenham’s 2-1 win over Southampton in the first match of the post-Mourinho era on Wednesday and is not certain to return against City. Mourinho’s dismissal was triggered by his failure to mount a top-four challenge, while his strained relations with several senior players including Gareth Bale proved debilitating. “Maybe just to be on the front foot a bit more,” Bale said pointedly when asked what might change after Mourinho’s exit. “We want to attack. We’re a big team with big players.” Aged just 29, Mason’s unexpected promotion from his role in Tottenham’s youth academy makes him the youngest manager in English Premier League history. The former Tottenham midfielder only went into coaching after his playing career was prematurely ended when he suffered a fractured skull playing for Hull in 2017. Now, Mason has a chance to lead the club he supported as a boy to their first trophy since the 2008 League Cup. Meanwhile, Chelsea and Liverpool face a crucial weekend trying to ensure they qualify for next season’s edition via a top-four finish in the English Premier League. Fixtures Carabao Cup Final Tomorrow: Manchester City v Tottenham Hotspur (5pm). English Premiership Today: Liverpool v Newcastle United (1:30pm); West Ham United v Chelsea (6:30pm); Sheffield United v Brighton & Hove Albion (9pm). Tomorrow: Wolverhampton Wanderers v Burnley (1pm); Leeds United v Manchester United (3pm); Aston Villa v West Bromwich Albion (8pm). Monday: Leicester City v Crystal Palace (9pm). — AFP.