The Herald Talent Bope-Arts Reporter Botswana-based Zimbabwean gospel diva Marry Mhiribidi Zinyimo, affectionately known as “Mai Zee”, has said the power of her songs does not lie solely in the instruments, as the impactful lyrics will prompt one to worship. Mai Zee, who recently launched her fifth album, “Hamuendi Kunorara” on ZBCTV, pleading for equal exposure and opportunity to showcase her talent. The eight-track album “Hamuendi Kunorara” has songs such as “Pehukama,” “Ishe Vanondivhumbamira”, “Vanhu Venyu”, “Hamuendi Kunorara”, “Tungamirai Mberi Kwangu”, “Ndisakutadzirai”, “Uchapera Muto” and “Mwari Vane Nguva”. The songs are all inspirational, centred on family and society that there is hope in God. The gospel artiste, whose music seeks to transform society with encouragement in the face of challenges, said her music suits these trying times of Covid-19 when everyone is worried about the global future. “Through music, we can worship God, we can give praises to our Lord, the dispenser of all gifts, including the biggest gift of life,” said Mai Zee. “God protected us during the difficult times when the pandemic was at its height, but we sailed through until now, so the album is a thanksgiving to God. “We also want equal opportunities on various platforms to shine and showcase our talents. It should not be hard having interviews or getting airplay on radio and television as this is our job as we survive through it.” Mai Zee said her album seeks mainly to thank God for protecting the people of Zimbabwe and Africa at large even though some died. “I am managing to balance my teaching and music careers. It is an advantage for me since the two careers have a symbiotic relationship. Teaching helps me to understand the real issues in life and be able to interpret them to the audience. Music also educates as I’m into education.” Mai Zee promises to be a great asset to the music industry as she plans to release more projects in the future after she established a studio in Botswana as a cost cutting measure to reduce coming back to Zimbabwe to record. The multi-talented singer started her career in the arts industry, in 2017 when she released he first album called “Ngazvindipfure”. Already, the songs are now available on video, and on most digital platforms such as YouTube. Mai Zee, a teacher by profession who has set up a private school in Botswana, is a family woman married to Mr Farai Zinyimo, who is also a talented singer with some singles to his credit.