The Herald Crime Reporter Accused land baron Felix Munyaradzi, facing charges over land dealings in Zvimba and who was arrested last week on charges of attempting to defeat the course of justice and interfering with a State witness, is now under investigation for allegedly duping 30 people in Gutu and other areas of thousands of US dollars in botched                                                             car deals. One of those who allege they were duped is Mr Ruzive Chitakunye of Gutu, who on Wednesday made a report at Mbare Police Station alleging that he had paid Munyaradzi US$8 500 in 2018 for a second-hand Toyota Granvia but had never received the vehicle. The matter is being investigated under case number RRB 4791884 at Mbare Police Station. It was alleged that in the last few years, Munyaradzi went to his rural home in Gutu where he allegedly took payment in money and cattle, 12 to 20 head, for used cars he was sourcing outside the country but that he never delivered the vehicles or refunded the money although other vehicles paid for were delivered. Mr Chitakunye reported that in 2018, he made two payments of US$4 000 and a few days later of US$4 500 to Munyaradzi for a Toyota Granvia being sold for                                                                           US$8 500. “He promised me that I was going to receive the car after 15 days. When the days elapsed, he then started giving me excuses when I visited his offices in Harare,” said Mr Chitakunye. Mr Chitakunye said he had earlier bought two cars from Munyaradzi, a Mazda Demio and a Honda Fit, which were supplied without problems. He alleged that others were also still waiting for their cars. The matter is still under investigations. Last month, Delatfin Investments (Pvt) Ltd, a company allegedly owned by Munyaradzi, was given seven days to pay outstanding taxes of over US$12 million, before the Zimbabwe Revenue Authority uses other means to recover its money. The latest development came after a whistleblower had reported him to Zimra alleging that he had evaded US$14 million in taxes. The whistle-blower alleged that Deltafin had since 2013, been using complex arrangement to avoid paying tax, largely through curious payment methods for stands on its Sandton estate near Westgate, selling land in exchange for motor vehicles and then swapping these for cattle.