The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter LUSUMBAMI Queens chairperson, Thembinkosi Muremba, says they are embarking on a rebuilding exercise. They are preparing for the resumption of netball, following the departure of a number of their senior players, when the game was on an extended break. It’s not yet certain when competition will resume but some clubs have begun planning, after netball received the green light, to resume its activities. Lusumbami plays in the Rainbow Amateur Netball League and have, prior to the break enforced by Covid-19, faced some financial problems, due to lack of sponsorship. Muremba said it was unfortunate seven of their senior players left, due to different reasons, but they were looking into the future, with hope, as they rebuild the team. “One of the challenges is that some of my players are now employed somewhere else,’’ said Muremba. “Covid-19 paralysed a lot of our projects. “Some have moved from Hwange and some are married. “Lusumbami’s position is we don’t have a sponsor, to the level of being unable to give the girls allowances, to an extent where they can fully commit, and make a living out of netball. “But, anyway, a team will always change, you don’t always remain with the same players forever. “I believe in continuity and, so, we are in the process of re-grouping and re-building Lusumbami. “We are actually rebuilding the team with new faces, young players around Hwange and even have some from outside Hwange,” said Muremba. The Lusumbami chairperson said, despite the challenges, they will soldier on. “Generally, the team will be playing in the league and we are planning that, as soon as we have assembled our players, we meet to start training. “We are also hoping that the Covid-19 restrictions will be relaxed, as we progress and, with the vaccination programme, I think it will also help. “So, at the moment, we haven’t started training although we are encouraging those players that are available to keep training alone so that they remain in shape. “Although we have lost some of our senior players, we have young players who are willing to play for the team,” said Muremba. Muremba said they will continue engaging potential sponsors and believes, by the time the games begin, they should have something in place. “We have been engaging with potential sponsors, and we continue engaging but, as it is, right now we have not yet had anything concrete. “But, I am very positive something will come up along the way, as long as we are organised,” Muremba said. The league was called off in its infancy last year, due to the pandemic.