The Herald Victor Maphosa-Herald Reporter HELPAGE Zimbabwe, a non-governmental organisation, has condemned the increase in murders of the elderly on allegations of witchcraft. HelpAge Zimbabwe executive director Ms Priscilla Gavi said her organisation was worried over an increase in recorded murders of the elderly who are killed after being accused of witchcraft. “We are an organisation which work with the elderly in Zimbabwe. We are concerned with the murder cases of the elder people who are killed over witchcraft allegations. This issue is now a cause for concern and is affecting many families,” she said. “We are worried. Why is it that every old person is deemed a witch, and they are murdered by younger people? This is bad and we want the society to change this perception that when someone grows old, he or she becomes a witch.”  Ms Gavi said her organisation had already started awareness campaigns through social media platforms, condemning the brutal killings of the elderly. “People should know that these killings are wrong. We must protect and take good care of the elderly,” she said. Recently, police arrested Denford Nyamande (35) of Marumisa Village in Murehwa, who is suspected of killing his elderly father and aunt on March 22. Nyamande allegedly killed his father Felix Taona Chiodza (87) in Marumisa Village and his aunt Ms Angela Bhunu (89) in Chidziva Village whom he accused of witchcraft. An axe with blood stains was found near Mr Chiodza’s body, while a hoe suspected to be a murder weapon was found near Ms Bhunu’s corpse. In a related incident, police have launched a manhunt for a 45-year old man from Mhondoro who fatally struck a couple using an axe and a knobkerrie over witchcraft allegations on April 1. Police are anxious to interview Freddy Makanganya of Denya Village Chief Chivero over the murder. Makanganya allegedly killed the couple after accusing Tabeth Chiumba (71) and her husband Tayero Santumeya (72), from the same village, of witchcraft. They were killed at their homestead.