The Herald Alec Masocha Sports Reporter PREMIERSHIP newboys, Tenax, are confident Sakubva will be in good condition by the time the 2021 Premier Soccer League season gets underway. The Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Service team are now under the new tutelage of veteran coach, Shadreck Mugurasave. Tenax will be using Sakubva, which has been undergoing some renovations, as their home ground. Mutare City Council are now making final touches, on the facelift, which has been bankrolled by the Government. This season, the country’s eastern border city will be having two teams, playing in the PSL — Manica Diamonds and Tenax. Sakubva failed to meet the minimum standards, required by ZIFA for PSL games, but a lot has changed in the past year. ZIFA Manicaland official, James Muhala, confirmed renovations were almost complete. “The current state of the stadium is good, with the drainage systems operating in full throttle and the turf in good condition. “Mutare City Council are making final touches so that it meets the standards expected,” said Muhala. Tenax won the Premiership ticket, ahead of Buffaloes, after amassing 64 points in the ZIFA Eastern Region Division One marathon, during the 2019 season. Mugurasave was appointed to take charge of the team, as the Division One championship-winning coach Blessing Madombi, does not have the requisite CAF A coaching licence. He is now the Tenax assistant coach. Mugurasave told The Herald they have since started training, as they look forward to football resumption, following a year of inactivity. They have built their squad around veteran players like captain Joseph Jambo and Takunda Mapara, who had stints with Buffaloes, ex-Monomotapa striker Malvern Dumbura, former Flame Lily player, Farai Mugumwa, and Panashe Mutasa, who once played for Chicken Inn and Dynamos. “Everything is going well and we are still roping in new players, where necessary, and we are mixing our young players with veterans. “Come Monday, everything will be in place,” said Mugurasave.