The Herald Eddie Chikamhi–Senior Sports Reporter ZIFA are keeping their fingers crossed, ahead of the 2022 World Cup qualifier against South Africa, with CAF set to decide this weekend whether the National Sports Stadium will be allowed to host the battle. Zimbabwe are not the only country whose home ground will have to be determined by CAF at the weekend. However, with Covid-19 still an issue, complicating travel around the continent, CAF have been reluctant to carry out their threats, for teams to play at neutral grounds. The giant stadium was inspected by the local Club Licensing officials last week. Club licensing manager, Xolisani Gwesela, yesterday told The Herald they have compiled a report that will be used by CAF, to determine the suitability of the venue of the June 5-8 encounter. “We inspected the National Sports Stadium and we have submitted to them a detailed report, accompanied by photographic and video evidence of the state of the ground, at the request of CAF,’’ said Gwesela. “So, we are yet to hear from CAF whether the stadium will be homologated for the upcoming matches or not. “The most remarkable change, since the last inspection, is the playing surface. “The has been tremendous improvement on the turf at the National Sports Stadium but we still have many outstanding areas that need to be worked on. “For instance, the installation of bucket seats, the electronic turnstiles and the renovation of the venue operation centre. “The National Stadium B Arena also has to be renovated, in line with CAF requirements, for training purposes.” The National Sports Stadium was condemned by CAF last year after it failed an initial inspection test. However, Government stepped in and there has been remarkable transformation at the facility. Despite covering a lot of ground, in a number of areas that includes the pitch, changing rooms, doping rooms, the installation of bucket seats and electronic turnstiles, has lagged behind. The B Arena has also not been fully attended to. ZIFA was recently fined US$2 000 by CAF, for technical infractions noted at the giant stadium, during the Warriors’ AFCON qualifying match against Zambia last month. CAF cited the absence of bucket seats, and the general uncleanliness of the stadium, as the basis for the sanction. CAF stadium requirements stipulate that “seats for spectators must be individual, fixed to the floor, separated from one another, shaped, numbered, made of an unbreakable and non-flammable material, and have a backrest of a minimum height of thirty (30) cm when measured from the seat.” “The National Sports Stadium was granted provisional homologation by CAF last year. “But, they made it clear that this privilege can be taken away if we continue to have infractions on the CAF requirements. “CAF have warned us that we should expedite the renovations at the stadium, in line with their policy to upgrade the infrastructure, on the continent. “So, we have also notified the relevant authorities to move with speed,” said Gwesela.