The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga-Sports Reporter CYRIL Chigodo was the overall winner of the Behind the Walls Chess tournament at Harare Central Prison on Independence Day. The Zimbabwe Prison and Correctional Services player amassed six points to win $4 500 that was at stake. Chigodo went to the podium twice as he also won the guest prize, which came along with $2 000, and returned for the overall winner’s prize, which had $2 500, as purse money. “It is these guys (inmates) who encouraged me to take up chess and it is now bearing results. ‘’I thank ZPCS and the Zimbabwe Chess Federation for this initiative. “I am looking forward to returning and defending my title next year, God willing,” said Chigodo. The annual tournament is the brainchild of ZPCS, in conjunction with Zimbabwe Chess Federation. Chigodo finished ahead of Elisha Thabo, in an event that was dominated by ZPCS members. Kennedy Chikawaya was tied with Collen Chikwature in third place. They pocketed $750. The women’s section top prize was won by national team player, Kudzanai Chirinda. She shared her purse with Linda Shaba, as a way to motivate women, to take up the sport seriously. There was low turnout for female inmates as they were anticipating for the Presidential amnesty. The inmates’ winners were Kingstone Gwenzi, of Kentucky Prison, Moses Zulu and Arnold Hurumba. ZPCS commissioner general, Moses Chihobvu, opened the ceremony while his deputy, Granisia Musango, oversaw the closing ceremony. ZCF president, Collen Tongowona, said they were looking forward to having many tournaments, in future, as chess was meant to unite people. “Chess has been used as a rehabilitation tool in many prisons, across the globe, as it challenges its practitioners to think and weigh various possible outcomes before carrying out a particular action. “As the Zimbabwe Chess Federation, it is our mandate to take chess and its benefits to all Zimbabweans, no matter their sphere of life. ‘’We have not forgotten our brothers and sisters behind the walls, which is the reason why we have this tournament on our annual calendar. “We want them to know that they may be physically confined, but they must not let their minds be confined too.’’