The Herald Africa Moyo LUSAKA Mayor, Miles Sampa, has congratulated the Warriors for qualifying for the 2022 AFCON finals, scheduled for Cameroon next January. Sampa came to Harare to watch the final qualifier between the Warriors and Chipolopolo, dubbed the Battle of Zimbabwe, which the Zambians won 2-0, on Monday night. Patson Daka, one of the rising stars of African football, who is now being tipped to move to one of the giants of English football, scored both goals for the Zambians. However, their impressive victory, against a depleted Warriors side who did not have a number of their regular players, came a little too late. After having lost their first two qualifiers, including a home defeat at the hands of the Warriors, Chipolopolo could not squeeze into the group of teams, which qualified for the next AFCON finals. However, the Zambians believe they have a good chance of qualifying for the World Cup finals, for the first time in their history. Sampa said the challenge was now on the Warriors, to go to Cameroon, and represent Southern Africa, with distinction. “I came here to Zimbabwe two days ago, to watch the match between Zambia and Zimbabwe, and I am happy that we won 2-0,’’ he said. “But, Zimbabwe had qualified for the Africa Cup of Nations. “So, congratulations to Zimbabwe and, since Zambia did not qualify, Zimbabwe now has one more supporter here, and the whole of Lusaka, will be cheering the Warriors at AFCON, hoping that you lift the Cup, on behalf of us. “I know, from Southern Africa, Malawi is also there (and Comoros) but our hope is on Zimbabwe. “We hope you lift the Cup. In Southern Africa, it is only Zambia that has won AFCON in 2012, and South Africa in 1996, and good luck, bring the Africa Cup.” Some Zimbabwean fans have voiced concern the Warriors might struggle, at the AFCON finals, under their Croatian coach, Zdravko Logarusic. The gaffer has guided his team to just one victory, a 1-0 win over Botswana, since he took over from Joey Antipas, in January last year. His home-based Warriors also lost all their three group matches, at the CHAN finals, where they became the first team to be knocked out of the tournament.