The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter TWO years ago, Willard Katsande announced his retirement from international football but, the gritty midfielder, has had a change of heart. The ageless former Warriors captain says he wants another dance with the national team he led, with aplomb, including guiding them to the 2017 AFCON finals. He is one of just three players, who have captained the Warriors, to the Nations Cup finals. The others are Peter Ndlovu, who led the team to the 2004 and 2006 AFCON finals, and Knowledge Musona, who was captain, when they qualified for the 2019 and 2021 edition of the tournament. Ndlovu made history as the first captain to lead the Warriors to their first Nations Cup finals, breaking the 23-year wait, when they booked their ticket to Tunisia, in 2004. He returned to lead them to the next AFCON finals, in his swansong major football tournament, in Egypt, in 2006. It, however, marked the start of a decade, in which the Warriors tried, and failed, to make it to the finals of the tournament. That was, until Katsande and his crew emerged on the scene, and grabbed their ticket to the 2017 Nations Cup finals, in Gabon. However, two years ago, Katsande told the world his time, representing his country, had come to an end, with his focus now on his club career. But, it appears, to lure of playing for the Warriors has been too much for Katsande, and reports have been emerging that he was reconsidering his decision to quit. Yesterday, the 35-year-old midfield enforcer, announced he was coming out of retirement and would be available, if he is called for national duty. If he gets a Warriors call-up, it will be the second time the Mutoko-born player will be backtracking from retirement. He agreed to play for the national team in 2018, a few months after announcing his retirement, after captaining the Warriors, at the 2017 AFCON finals in Gabon. “Obviously, I would like to play for the national team for one or two games before I call it quits,” said Katsande. “I am not saying I should be included in the national team, no. “The coaches select the players based on form. “What I am simply saying is that, as someone who still feels he has what it takes, I would like to play for my country, for one last time, and retire. “I am the Warriors number one fan and I know I have contributed so much for the team’s cause. “So, I am certainly a team supporter, as I follow them wherever they go but, obviously, every player wants to play for their national team.’’ He made it clear he wasn’t putting pressure on the coaches to call him for national duty. “I am not exerting pressure on anyone, I am not sure if I am really still needed in the national team,’’ said Katsande. “But, I feel I have what it takes, the experience, and other things, to help my country. “If I am called in, I am ready to play my part. “I am actually very grateful for my national team, which is the reason why I am saying I am the number one fan. “Without this team, I wouldn’t be where I am right now. “So, what I am simply saying is I owe a lot to this team, which is the reason why I am saying I am ready, any time, if called to help the team.” Katsande is aware there will be some critics who will suggest he now just wants to jump on the Warriors bandwagon, after the team qualified, for the 2021 Nations Cup finals. However, the midfielder said he cannot control what people say, about him, and he can only reveal what he is feeling. His position, when it comes to the Warriors, is one of the team’s strongest departments. It has the likes of Marvelous Nakamba and Marshall Munetsi. Katsande hailed the progress made by the current crop of Warriors. “I am really happy with the progress we have made as a country,’’ he said. ‘’We are now definitely a force to be reckoned with in Africa. “Qualifying for the AFCON is now in our DNA, as a country, and the goal should now be for us to do well and go beyond group stages. “We have a good squad which can take us to the next level. “We just need to believe in ourselves, go out there and play without exerting too much pressure on ourselves.” Although there have been reports linking him with an exit, out of Kaizer Chiefs, given the limited role he has played under Gavin Hunt, Katsande said he was not interested in rumours. Katsande was part of the Chiefs substitutes yesterday as the Amakhosi crashed to a humiliating 0-1 defeat at the hands of Chippa United at Soccer City. Meanwhile, Katsande is planning to visit his rural home of Mutoko, in July, where his philanthropic work is well-documented. “I always go to Mutoko every July. I am planning something for them. They really need us, especially in difficulty periods like this. “I was born in Mutoko so I always have this place in my heart. “These are my greatest supporters. When we played the AFCON in 2017, they would walk for about 14 kilometers, to and from, just to watch me play on television. “They are proud of me and I am also proud of them, so donating to them should be routine.”