The Herald Ellina Mhlanga
Senior Sports Reporter
SOMETIMES it takes an individual’s efforts to bring positive change that can shape the future for a community and a country. And, one such person is former tennis administrator and coach, Albert Nhamoyebonde. He is remembered as one of the pioneers of tennis, in the high-density suburbs in the country, in the ‘80s, after the country attained its Independence, in April 1980. Then, tennis was among the sporting disciplines which were a preserve for the elite. And, for many youths from the ghetto, it was just a fantasy that would never turn into reality. But, Nhamoyebonde, who is now 76-years-old, took it upon himself to change the narrative, taking the sport to the high-density suburbs, through his Mufakose Tennis Coaching Agency. Some of his products include former Davis Cup player and non-playing captain, Martin Dzuwa. He won the Zimbabwe Open, in 1995, and went on to claim the doubles title with Peter Nyamande. Dzuwa, now a full-time coach, paid tribute to Nyamoyebonde. “I think the MTCA programme really changed a lot and Nhamoyebonde did well,’’ he said. “He had this high-density suburb team, it was a league and we were able to play tournaments and it really helped in the development of tennis in Zimbabwe. “For example, there were more high-density suburbs playing tennis, such as Highfield, Mbare (in Harare), Dangamvura (in Mutare) and in Bulawayo. “It truly changed a lot, people had the idea that it was only for the rich to play tennis but it was opened to us, as well. “In terms of development, it changed a lot, he made it cheaper for us to be able to play.’’ Besides being director of MTCA, Nhamoyebonde was the Tennis Association of Zimbabwe vice-president, in the late 1980s. He was appointed chairman of the selectors, in the same association, in 1988. In 2011, he was elected an honorary life vice-president of Tennis Zimbabwe in recognition of his contribution in the sport. “I think it did open opportunities for tennis players. We were able to get scholarships into Group A schools as well,’’ said Dzuwa. “For example, Genius Chidzikwe got a scholarship at St George’s College, me and Peter Nyamande got scholarships at Churchill. “There were guys who also got scholarships at Prince Edward. “That really changed how people were seeing tennis and he (Nhamoyebonde) ended up having players who went to America, on scholarships. “I enjoyed working with Mr Nhamoyebonde. He was a tough man, yes, he wanted things to be done. He would come every Saturday, coach us and leave us the equipment. “During the whole week, we would just be playing on our own, then he would come on Saturday, and he would again coach us. “It really changed my life, personally, and now (tennis) is my profession. I have gone full-time into coaching. “It opened up the doors and opportunities, chances to play for the national team, junior level, senior level. “We have coaches all over the world now, from Mufakose, he really did a good job, Mr Nhamoyebonde, and we really appreciate that.’’ Nhamoyebonde’s legacy lives on, and some of his former players have come together to try and set up a Tennis Centre in Mufakose. Dzuwa and several other coaches have been having training programmes for aspiring young players in the suburb. “And, now we are trying to do the same, the legacy that he left, we are trying to get back Mufakose tennis going again,’’ said Dzuwa. “He was a good guy, he really did help (change) a lot of lives.” Other players who passed through the hands of Nhamoyebonde include United States-based Julius Mashonganyika, umpire Shepherd Manyumbu, Andrew Mawire, the late Claudio Murape, who was the Davis Cup first black captain, Lazarus Manjoro and Moses Chikodzi, who are now into coaching. Mashonganyika described Nhamoyebonde as a hero to the Mufakose community. “I have learnt so many things from Mr Albert Nhamoyebonde and he has been able to give me a completely new outlook towards life. “He is our hero in the Mufakose Community, we love him, God bless him and his family,” said Mashonganyika. The Herald Sports Editor, Collin Matiza, also paid tribute to Nhamoyebonde, saying he is the man who helped him to turn into a tennis writer. “I remember when I joined The Herald Sports Department, at the beginning of 1987, I was mainly into football writing or reporting but  Nhamoyebonde encouraged me to watch tennis more, and he taught me how the sport is played. “So, every other weekend, I would find myself either at Old Hararians Sports Club or Harare Sports Club reporting on tennis tournaments and this helped me to turn into a fine tennis reporter, too, thanks to Mr Albert Nhamoyebonde. “He is Mr Tennis Zimbabwe for real. “He is of pioneer, when it comes to bringing and helping more black players to play tennis in this country, in the post-Independence era together with the late Misheck Mbewe,” Matiza said.