The Herald LONDON. — Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta admitted he was “in shock” after his side were outclassed in a 3-0 home defeat by Liverpool in the English Premier League football on Saturday. Arteta’s side barely laid a glove on the visitors and were undone by two second-half goals by Diogo Jota and one by Mohamed Salah, although the margin of defeat could have been bigger. It left Arsenal down in ninth spot and Arteta with much to ponder after his 50th league game in charge produced a display he described as one of the worst in his tenure. “We completely deserved to lose the game. They were better in every department and deserved to win the game with the margin they had, or even more,” the Spaniard said. “I accept responsibility for the way we played today. It is my fault. I have to set the team up to perform in a different way and that is it. At the moment I am in shock. “I didn’t expect that because of the way the team trained. It is a challenge. A challenge brings an opportunity. If you have courage and you represent a club like this, you have to stand up and take it.” Arteta’s win percentage in the league from his first 50 games in charge is only 42%, compared to his predecessor Unai Emery’s 49% from his 51 games at the helm. While Arsenal have improved defensively under Arteta, the attacking flair they were once known for has been replaced by a cautious and often timid approach that was painfully evident against Liverpool. “I don’t know if it was the worst but probably one of the worst,” Arteta said of the performance. “We gave every ball away we could not put three passes together. There were too many simple things not done right. The basics weren’t there today. “We want to apologise, to our people and our fans. This is nowhere near what we want and we have to do better.” Meanwhile, Liverpool thrust themselves firmly back into the battle for a place in the English Premier League’s top four as they outclassed abject Arsenal at Emirates Stadium on Saturday night. Chelsea’s shock 2-5 thrashing at home to West Brom earlier in the day opened the door for Liverpool — and Jurgen Klopp’s men burst straight through it in style with a victory that leaves them in fifth, only two points behind Thomas Tuchel’s side. The only surprise was that it took dominant Liverpool so long to make their superiority count. They finally got the breakthrough they deserved after 64 minutes when Diogo Jota headed Trent Alexander-Arnold’s brilliant delivery past Arsenal goalkeeper Bernd Leno moments after he replaced Andy Robertson. It was not only the decisive moment of the contest but also a timely reminder of the quality Alexander-Arnold possesses at a time when England manager Gareth Southgate feels he can do without him. Liverpool doubled their lead four minutes later when Mohamed Salah took advantage of poor defending by Arsenal’s Gabriel then slid a cool finish through Leno’s legs. Jota was the beneficiary of more good work from Alexander-Arnold when he slammed home his second from close range with eight minutes left — by then, though, the game had become a formality. Klopp said Liverpool “have to show we are really fighting for it” when asked about getting back in the running for a Champions League place. “It was a very important statement. In our position it is clear, everything that has happened to us this season means we don’t have it in our hands,” he added. “We have to win our games and others have to lose but we have to [put] pressure on them. That is what we did with the result but we are still not in. We have to fight and we will fight and that is the statement for us and nobody else.” England manager Southgate’s exclusion of Alexander-Arnold for the opening World Cup qualifiers shocked Klopp – and the defender’s performance in north London showed why. Southgate currently prefers Chelsea’s 21-year-old Reece James, who he seems to regard as the more complete defensive and attacking package, Manchester City’s Kyle Walker and Atletico Madrid’s Kieran Trippier, believing Alexander-Arnold needs to improve his club form to merit inclusion amid a relatively indifferent season for the Premier League champions as a team. Klopp is clearly satisfied with Alexander-Arnold, though, and that is hardly surprising after the right-back showed what a threat he offers as Liverpool overpowered Arsenal. He showcased his sublime delivery for Jota’s opener then demonstrated his energy and awareness to steal back possession high up the pitch in the build-up to the prolific Portugal forward’s second goal. Klopp said afterwards he did not want to “make another discussion” but added that “Alexander-Arnold had showed his class again”. “If somebody says Trent is not [in good shape] then I have to say they are wrong, that is all. I am not responsible for (Southgate’s) decisions,” Klopp added. It was a display that responded to Southgate’s decision to drop him in the perfect manner and suggested England must have serious quality at right-back if Alexander-Arnold is in serious danger of missing Euro 2020. Liverpool and Klopp had a hugely satisfying night all round. Brazil’s Fabinho gave a masterclass in the midfield anchor role, demonstrating what the side missed when he was deputising in central defence to cover for injuries to Virgil van Dijk, Joe Gomez and Joel Matip. Klopp’s side may be in a miserable run of six successive home defeats but their away form is sustaining them and this comfortable three points, on the back of the previous victory at Wolves, gives them real hope of Champions League qualification. With a Champions League quarter-final first leg away to Real Madrid tomorrow, Liverpool suddenly look like a team with renewed purpose and momentum. — BBC Sport.