The Herald LONDON. — Mason Mount became Chelsea’s youngest ever goalscorer in a Champions League knock-out match as he opened the scoring in the Blues 2-0 win over Porto in their quarter-final match in Spain on Wednesday night. Having only turned 22 in January, Mount arrowed home in the first leg on neutral soil where the Portuguese side were the home team. On a big night for the emerging players, Paris St Germain’s Kylian Mbappe said he felt no pressure in facing one of the world’s best ‘keepers, Bayern Munich’s Manuel Neuer, after he scored twice in the French side’s 3-2 Champions League win in Munich. Mbappe scored an early opener for PSG and Marquinhos put them 2-0 up in the 28th minute before hosts Bayern hit back through Eric-Maxim Choupo-Moting and Thomas Mueller. The 22-year-old Mbappe then scored again, drilling in from a tight angle and with two defenders in front of him to put PSG back in front and hand Bayern their first Champions League defeat in more than two years. Mbappe said he relished the chance to test himself against Neuer. “I love to play against the best player in the world and Manuel Neuer is one of the best keepers in the history of the game,” Mbappe told BT Sport. “I don’t have any pressure.” PSG had lost to Bayern 1-0 in the Champions League final last season but are now one step closer to knocking out the title holders ahead of the second leg at home on April 13. “We played in the final against him (Neuer) and didn’t score but now I scored two goals,” added Mbappe. “I will play one (more) time against him so I hope to score again.” In Spain, Chelsea scored with their first shot on the night and their first shot, in a last-eight Champions League tie, in seven years. Mount controlled and spun in one movement on the edge of the box before finding the bottom corner for his first Champions League goal. The midfielder has been tipped by many to reach the very top having become a regular at Stamford Bridge. Speaking on BBC Radio 5 Live, Clinton Morrison said: “He’s the go-to man for Chelsea. He’s the go-to man for England. “It’s patient play and even though Porto have a good shape, it’s a good ball in by Jorginho into Mason Mount’s feet. The turn is so sweet, so sharp. “The goalkeeper is at fault for me, though.” While Chelsea boss Thomas Tuchel says there is no limit to Mount’s potential, saying: “I don’t want to put a limit on his development. “It is obvious he has a lot of potential, he is a great footballer and super nice guy, eager to learn, hungry to win, open-minded and, for that, I think that for him, he can perform for any manager. “He really means it; he has this internal motivation and a nice guy with a big personality. What more can you wish for? He’s top. — Daily Star/AFP.