The Herald Nyasha Chitavati and Tinashe Nyamushanya Youth Interactive Correspondents Being a youth nowadays is something that seems as easy and fun. Some call it an experience never to miss. However, during this stage, that’s where many responsibilities flood on your tables. If you are not paying attention enough, then your life might end up being directed in the wrong way. It’s a time of happiness and also a time of self-destruction if we don’t pay attention to what is going on in our lives. Enjoy your youth whilst you know where your mind is rooted. There’s nothing beautiful than living a life that you’ve always wanted to, at a young age. But this can’t be achieved when our minds are one-sided. This is the time when one finds himself and discover what he is good at, what will benefit him permanently. However, the problem is that when we were growing up our minds have been programmed to only believe in going to school, get a degree, get a job and getting married, and live happily ever after. Our lives are mainly geared towards happiness but we tend to forget about who we are, what we carry, and what our tomorrow will be like. This has created rust in our minds that is blurring our thinking capacity. Being at school is regarded as something great. Some call it an achievement. We don’t argue with that. The problem comes after we just fold our hands whilst at school and waiting for things to come to us inherently while we wait for our graduation ceremonies. But have you ever asked yourself about your gifts, skills, and abilities that you are hiding inside of yourself? Being a youth nowadays means finding yourself occupied with things that will grow you financially, mentally and physically permanently not temporarily. Embrace the pain of learning and growing and use it as fuel for your journey. Whatever stretches you is painful, but without stretching you will not build any muscles or strength. Gems are never polished without friction. Challenges are the chisel you need to sharpen your edge. The best of captains earn their stripes in difficult moments. Anyone can hold the controls in fair weather. In difficult times, please do not show your certificates, show your results delivered in adverse conditions. Whatever you face always take it as an opportunity to grow and develop. The winds you face determine how high you climb. Your kite always rises high when flying against the wind. You stop growing when you stop confronting your challenges and seeking to grow thereby. Your spirit is stronger than you think. You’re made to survive and thrive in whatever situation you find yourself in. If you cannot change your circumstances adapt yourself to your environment. Do not give up or run away. There are solutions and pathways beyond your wildest dreams. Keep your cool and hold your tool. Life is a process of growth and development. Every challenge you face is a growth stimulant. Grow daily and grow in every way. The problem we have as the generation of this era is that the moment that we know that our parents can provide us with a few amounts of dollars. We relax. What if you guardian or parents happen to lose their lives in an unexpected event and worst of all they leave no will. And what’s left for you is nothing but their memories. As someone who is smart enough, ask yourself, these kinds of questions, prepare for what is yet to come which you don’t know when it will come. Equip yourself with better ideas and visions. Long for permanent success not for temporary pleasures that will bring you nothing but stress and misery. Youth it’s high time we change the outline of stories and who we are. If we stand strong and work hard for our future I believe this world would become a better place to live. Our lives are not supposed to be only focussed on happiness or so on but instead we need to build our empires from our young age. To succeed in life, you need to think out of the box instead of doing what everyone else is doing. It is said a man finds himself by doing things. By actually developing skills. By going out there and test out and projects in the real world. The easiest way to find what you are worth is to put yourself in challenging situations. Pursue your current passions outside your college. Become a person of value, worth and integrity. Ask yourself who will l become in the future? Is my perception on everything good or bad?