The Herald Sports Reporter HE was Zimbabwe cricket’s poster boy, the fast bowler who transformed himself into a global star and, at the peak of his career, was even ranked among the top 10 pacemen, in the world. But, today, Heath Streak’s legacy now lies in tatters, forever associated with cheating, or attempting to cheat, after he was banned by the International Cricket Council, for eight years, for his involvement in corrupt activities. It’s another huge victory for international cricket’s pro-active stance, in fighting corruption. And, for those who care about the reputation of the game, it will be refreshing to note that none of Streak’s questionable activities, with his Indian associate known only as Mr X, ended up influencing the outcome of any match. This is important because it means that, despite Streak’s corrupt activities, which he knew were in violation of the ICC Code, none of them ended up influencing the outcome of matches, including those involving the Chevrons. “As a former captain and coach, he held a position of trust and owed a duty to uphold the integrity of the game. He breached the Code on several occasions, including facilitating the approach of four other players. At times, he also sought to obstruct and delay our investigation,’’ Alex Marshall, the ICC General Manager – Integrity Unit, said, in a statement. “The offences did not affect the outcomes of any relevant matches and Mr Streak has agreed to assist the ICC anti-corruption education programme for which we are grateful. ‘’He has also expressed his remorse and contrition and entered this agreed sanction decision to avoid the need for a full disciplinary process. The sanction reflects this cooperation.” For the former Zimbabwe captain, and coach, it’s the day when his world collapsed around him with the good image, which he has built over the years, shattered in just a matter of seconds. Here is a timeline of the events, which led to Streak’s fall from grace, according to a judgment released by the ICC. ‘’The ICC has considered all of the circumstances of this case, including giving Mr Streak credit for agreeing an outcome that avoids the need for a hearing and so saves considerable time and money for use elsewhere in the fight against corruption, and that he has admitted offences relating to separate incidents or sets of facts, and has considered relevant precedents. ‘’The ICC, therefore, considers that a period of ineligibility of eight (8) years is reasonable and proportionate, Mr Streak has agreed to this sanction, as such, a period of ineligibility of eight (8) years, is imposed.’’