The Herald Columbus Mabika Herald Reporter The Air Force of Zimbabwe (AFZ) is with the bereaved families in mourning the aircrew of the Agusta Bell 412 helicopter that crashed in the Hukuru Area in Arcturus, Mashonaland East Province last week, contrary to malicious reports from some sections of the media aimed to draw a wedge between the families and the organisation. The deceased crew comprised of two pilots, Wing Commander Thomas Tinashe Manyowa and Flight Lieutenant Anita Mapiye and aircraft technician Flight Sergeant Tinodiwanashe Chikamhi. In a statement yesterday, AFZ director Civil Military Relations, Group Captain Valentine Sedze, said such reports were insensitive. “The AFZ has noted with concern the malicious efforts by some elements of the media to drive a wedge between the organisation and families of the deceased crew after an AB412 helicopter accident last week,” he said. “Such reports are not only malicious, but insensitive as the AFZ and the families of the deceased are grappling to come to terms with the loss of the dearly departed crew.” Grp Cpt Sedze said the AFZ provided the required support in terms of the appropriate defence regulations. “In mourning the deceased after the unfortunate accident, the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces led by expressing his deepest condolences to the families of the deceased,” he said. “Thereafter, the Minister of Defence and War Veterans Cde Oppah Muchinguri was accompanied by Commander AFZ, Air Marshal Elison Moyo and senior officers to pay condolences to all the families of the deceased. “Since then, the AFZ has stood with the families by providing the required support in terms of the appropriate defence regulations.” Grp Cpt Sedze said a funeral parade to honour the crew will be held today at Manyame Airbase. After the parade, Wing Commander Manyowa will be buried in Chinhoyi, while Flight Lieutenant Mapiye will be interred at Glen Forest Memorial Park in Harare, with Flight Sergeant Chikamhi being at Mucheke Cemetery in Masvingo. The accident also claimed the life of an 18-month-old toddler, Jade Fenyere, who was buried on Tuesday in Bocha, Manicaland Province.