The Herald GHANAIAN President, Nana Akufo-Addo, has challenged the Black Stars to win the 2021 AFCON finals and become the first African side to reach the semi-finals of the World Cup in Qatar next year. While the Black Stars have qualified for the next Nations Cup finals, in Cameroon in January, they are yet to kick a ball, in the qualifiers, for the 2022 World Cup finals. They are in the same qualifying group with Zimbabwe, South Africa and Ethiopia. Ghana last won the AFCON in 1982 and, 11 years ago, came within a successful penalty conversion, to reach the semi-finals, of the World Cup. “Our exploits in South Africa, in 2010 where we reached the quarter-finals of the World Cup, tell us that once we are properly prepared, we have the quality and the talent to match any of the best teams in the world,’’ President Akufo-Addo told a fund-raising breakfast meeting in Accra, on Monday. He said his Government would raise US$10 million, to support the fund for the Black Stars to try and achieve their goals, and challenged the corporate sector to raise a further US$15 million. “The target is to bring the Cup home by winning the AFCON 2022. We must go a step further than our second-place finishes in 1992, 2010 and 2015 and end the 40-year drought for a title. “We must also reach at least the semi-finals of the World Cup in Qatar. The task might seem daunting, but it is exactly not insurmountable.” Ghana’s Sports Minister, Mustapha Ussif, also challenged the Black Stars to go for gold in Cameroon. “It is the dream of the nation to win the Africa Cup of Nations again in Cameroon next year, and to qualify for the 2022 FIFA World Cup,” said Ussif. “These campaigns require a substantial amount of investment to be able to execute this mandate and the Government alone cannot shoulder this responsibility at the expense of other sporting disciplines. “Historically, the Black Stars have performed well every time corporate Ghana has backed them and it is our hope that you will do the same again.” Although Ghana are the Warriors’ World Cup qualifying opponents, Zimbabwe coach, Zdravko Logarusic, doesn’t see any problem in him returning to work in the West African nation, once his contract with ZIFA ends, next January. He says he feels he has some unfinished business with Ghanaian giants, Asante Kotoko, a club he managed for four months, four years ago, before being sacked. Loga has, in the past, said he believes the Black Stars will qualify from the World Cup qualifying group, which features the Warriors, Bafana Bafana and Ethiopia. However, after his comments provoked a backlash, in this country, he claimed he was only trying to lure the West Africans into a false sense of security. Asked if he could consider a possible return to work in Ghana, Loga, said he was ready for another reunion with Asante Kotoko, should an opportunity present itself, again. “Maybe in the future, when I am free and if the position is open, why not?,” Loga told Ghanaian radio, Ashh FM, when asked if he would consider returning to the club, at some point, in his career. “Asante Kotoko is a big name and, if the situation is right, then sure. “I was expecting to be Kotoko coach in 2011, 2012 or even 2013 because of the results I produced in Ghana (with King Faisal and Ashanti Gold) but nothing came and then, from nowhere in 2017, the opportunity opened up for me to coach the club. “This means in our job, we always have our suitcases packed, ready to go because you never know when an opportunity will open up.’’ Loga is no stranger to a nomadic lifestyle, since he started his coaching adventure, in Africa. Meanwhile, Bafana Bafana fans are desperate for SAFA to name the new Bafana Bafana coach as their football leaders race against time to find the right man for the job. Bafana’s first World Cup qualifier is against the Warriors in Harare in June. SAFA had indicated they would unveil the new Bafana Bafana coach, who was believed to be Portuguese gaffer Carlos Quieroz, last Saturday but the announcement was postponed, amid reports the coach had turned down the offer. Now, it appears, they are trying to convince Pitso Mosimane to leave his job with African champions, Al Ahly, for a return to coach the national team. “According to Al Ahly legend and pundit, Ahmed Shobier, SAFA, are persistent with their offer as they even got the country’s Minister of Sports, Arts and Culture to call Mosimane to try and persuade him.” Egyptian publication KingFut reported. “Despite Pitso Mosimane’s refusal yet again, SAFA have planned another meeting with him on Tuesday with an even higher ranked official.’’ However, Al Ahly director of football, Sayed Abdel-Hafiz, told Al Wash Al-Thani Radio station, the speculation was not true. “Al Ahly haven’t received anything official regarding Pitso Mosimane. “Mosimane has settled his future with the club and confirmed that he will continue with Al Ahly in the upcoming period.” — Sports Reporter/Goal.com/KickOff.com