The Herald THE return of football is fast gathering pace in Zimbabwe after more teams resumed full training following over 12 months without any action. Highlanders became the latest team to start preparing for the new season with Bulawayo Chiefs, Black Rhinos, Chicken Inn, Caps United, FC Platinum, Manica Diamonds and Ngezi Platinum Stars already in full swing with their preparations. The Bulawayo giants, Highlanders, finally met the Covid-19 requirements for resumption of training. The club’s players, technical staff, office staff as well as executive committee members underwent Covid-19 tests on Friday ahead of their first session. ZIFA have undertaken to provide assistance when domestic football does make a return next month. ZIFA will cover referees’ fees among other expenses using funds set aside from the FIFA and Confederation of African Football [Caf] Covid-19 relief funds. Last year, the national association received a total of US$1,8 million in Covid-19 relief funds, US$1,5 million came from FIFA and US$300 000 from the Caf. Of the US$1,5 from FIFA, US$500 000 was specifically set aside for women’s football. Highlanders and Dynamos kick-start football’s return in this country when they clash in the President’s Independence Trophy this coming  Sunday. However, the two clubs are still to hit top gear with their preparations. They only have one week to prepare themselves for the season opener. Highlanders will be boosted by the return of national team defender Peter Muduhwa, who recently cut ties with Tanzania side Simba SC. Muduhwa joined Simba on a six-month loan deal in January but the two parties have since parted ways after limited game time. Simba was to use the centre-back in the Caf Champions’ League, but he never kicked the ball in any of the club’s six group stage matches in which Simba recorded four wins, one draw and a single defeat as the Tanzanian champions finished on top in Group A. Simba plays in next month’s knock-out stage. – Panafricanfootball.com