The Herald LONDON. — Like countless young pony riders, Rachael Blackmore watched the film National Velvet starring Elizabeth Taylor and dreamed of one day winning the Grand National. On April 10, 2021 she made fantasy a reality. The first female jockey to triumph in the world’s most famous steeplechase, with a stirring victory on Minella Times. “National Velvet was definitely something that would have been on the television when we were growing up. I’ve got no punchy line to go with it,” she told me. The iconic 1944 film saw Taylor play 12-year-old Velvet Brown who won the National on a gelding called The Pie but was later disqualified on a technicality. Blackmore, a quietly spoken but articulate individual, had saved her ‘punchy line’ for shortly after passing the finishing line on 11-1 chance Minella Times, trained by Henry de Bromhead for owner JP McManus. “I don’t feel male or female right now. I don’t even feel human,” the 31-year-old Irish rider told ITV. “This is just unbelievable.” A little later she paused during an interview as the magnitude of her achievement sank in, took a breath and composed herself before continuing. Wonder woman is human after all. The daughter of a dairy farmer and a school teacher, she rode ponies as a child near her home in Killenaule, County Tipperary. Blackmore had once hoped to become a vet, gaining a degree in equine science and combining her studies with riding out and competing as an amateur before turning professional in 2015. She has gone on to be a quiet pioneer — finishing in the top three in the Irish jockeys’ championship for the past two seasons and is in with a chance of winning the title this time. “My first memory of racing was when I was about seven or eight watching the Grand National round a friend’s house and it had that special kind of hype,” she said. “I took out my amateur jockey’s licence and didn’t even dare to dream I would get a ride in the race, let alone ride the winner of it. “It’s such a special race. I finished 10th last year and got a kick out of that. To finish with your head in front is beyond belief, to be honest.” Her world is racing. Boyfriend Brian Hayes and housemate Patrick Mullins are both successful jockeys. Teaming up with De Bromhead, who is based in Knockeen, County Waterford, has provided plenty of big rides including Honeysuckle, the landmark Champion Hurdle winner which the trainer followed up with Champion Chase and Gold Cup victories. Blackmore has the talent — riding instinct, tactical awareness, strength in a finish — but also the work ethic. She is a grafter, competing in more races (516 and counting) than anyone else in Ireland this season. And she has a high pain threshold, a big plus in a sport where ambulances follow every race and falls at 30mph are a way of life. It might be too much to say Blackmore has ridden to racing’s rescue, but her feelgood story comes after a troubled start to the year where a trainer and jockey were banned after social media posts emerged of them posing with dead horses. The success of women, competing on a level playing field against men, is a hugely positive narrative for the sport. — BBC Sport.