The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE international midfielder, Last Jesi, could walk away with a golden handshake, in the region of US$200 000, after his contract was terminated prematurely by Sudanese giants Al Hilal. Jesi, who moved to Sudan in September last year, was released by the club, barely seven months into his adventure. Three other foreign players were shown the exit by the Omdurman-based side mid-season, following the club’s failure to progress into the quarter-finals, of the CAF Champions League. The other players affected by the purge include Jamaican Alvas Powell (26), Ibrahima N’Diaye (26) of Senegal and Democratic Republic of Congo player, Vinny Bongonga (25). However, Jesi’s manager, George Deda, yesterday said he was still in the dark as there hasn’t been official communication, from the Sudanese giants. Deda was furious that the club took to social media, to announce their decision, without engaging the player first. He also revealed the midfielder was on a two-year contract, worth US$100 000 per year, and would demand to be paid off for the breach. “We are all taken aback by the news. I am the one who facilitated the player’s move to Sudan but up to now there is no official communication from the club regarding the release of Jesi,’’ said Deda. “We are only seeing this in social media circles.’’ Deda said they were not involved in any discussions to terminate the deal. “I don’t understand what they mean by termination by mutual consent because mutual consent is when two parties sit down and thrush out an agreement,’’ he said. “So, how can this be by mutual consent when there hasn’t been any form of discussion, between the player and the club? “I am the one who represents Jesi, as a registered Zimbabwean player intermediary. “I can confirm there hasn’t been any sort of discussion, so Jesi is still a Hilal player, if you ask me. “But, if they no longer want his services, we are prepared to sit down with them and hear their side. “After all, this guy has been on a two-year contract that is worth US$100 000 per year. “So, if they want to terminate it, common sense says they should be prepared to pay it off with US$200 000. “Al Hilal are a big club, with experienced administrators and, if there is a decision of that magnitude, they know the rules and regulations on how to handle the communication. “Let me not remind them what CAF have done to the other clubs that have treated their players badly.” Jesi signed a two-year contract with the Sudanese giants in September last year. He had charmed the Hilal technical team with his silky midfield performances, when they played FC Platinum, in the CAF Champions League. The 26-year-old midfielder played for the platinum miners, while on loan, from Manica Diamonds. He made an instant impact, on arrival in Sudan, when he scored on his debut as the Omdurman-based side drew 1-1 against Hay-Al-Arab, in a Sudan Premier League match on December 28. But, there have been complaints that the club have always been paying his salary late. Jesi featured for Al Hilal in five Champions League matches and was named man-of-the-match in two games. But, Hilal had a disastrous campaign, after finishing bottom of Group B, which also had Mamelodi Sundowns of South Africa, Algerian champions CR Belouizdad and regional giants, TP Mazembe, of the Democratic Republic of Congo. The Sudanese side completed the round-robin matches winless with just four points. The embarrassing run has forced them to fire four of their five-foreign signings mid-season. Al Hilal have since announced replacements by signing local players Osman Mukhtor, Hussein Al-Nour, Omar El-Masry, on three-year contracts.