The Herald Ellina Mhlanga -Senior Sports Reporter THE new Zimbabwe Olympic Committee Athletes Commission chairperson Cuthbert Nyasango says they are looking forward to ensuring that athletes’ needs and views are taken into consideration at all decision-making levels. Nyasango was elected the new ZOC Athletes Commission chairperson over the weekend. He takes over from Abel Chimukoko, who is now a ZOC board member. The long-distance runner also leads the National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe Athletes Commission and believes his experience will come in handy as he takes up his new role. “As someone who has been representing athletes for a very long time, I think my experience will benefit a lot of athletes. “I am hoping to continue working with other national associations athletes commission so that we continue to push the needs and the views of athletes at all decision-making levels,” said Nyasango. Some of the issues that remain topical in local sport is the welfare and support for athletes in and out of competition. He also pointed out the importance of continued education on anti-doping for local athletes and says it is among the issues they discussed as a committee soon after their election. “As a committee we discussed about it, and we say we want to do more educational awareness and a lot of follow-ups with other national federations’ Athletes Commission, so that information is disseminated to all athletes. “Anti-doping is something that is core and important to ZOC and all the national federations. So as the Athletes Commission, I think it’s our role to make sure our athletes understand and know the importance of anti-doping and the dangers of doping. “So starting from now we are going to have more material distributed to athletes. And also we want to get involved with the athletes even when they are competing in their different sporting codes, so that we ensure that the awareness and the information is being received by the correct recipients, the athletes. “Anti-doping education must not be a once off thing, it has to be a daily thing. “We also want to involve coaches because they are the ones who are involved with the athletes every day, so that they continue to give the athletes information and teach them the dangers of doping,” said Nyasango.
Andrew Peebles is the secretary while Chushi Rachel Mutambira, Munashe Dangare and Taurai Chitsinde are commission members.