The Herald Dr Musekiwa Clinton Tapera Destination branding (DB) as an important national initiative can capture critical benefits by engaging meaningfully and effectively with the legitimate stakeholders. Stakeholder theory proponents argue that the success of the organisation, and in this case, a destination branding programme, in meeting its objectives mainly depends on its ability to address the aspirations, dreams and requirements of a wide array of groups that also have their own interest in the programme. Some gurus define stakeholders as groups or individuals that can affect or be affected by the performance of an organisation and these are considered to be legitimate stakeholders. Others prefer to think in terms of salience rather than legitimacy. Salience in this case refers to the degree of relevance or depth of relevance of the interest of the stakeholder group to the organization or project. Whichever way one takes it, for programmes of a national tourism importance, stakeholders are central and are critical drivers to tourism performance if they are genuinely and meaningfully involved in a holistic, comprehensive, sustainable and results focused DB strategy. Zimbabwe once referred to as the Jewel Of Africa, a Tourism Paradise and many other names can reestablish itself as a tourism gem in  sub-saharan Africa and be a major contributor to the country’s GDP in excess of 15/20 percent per annum. Stakeholder involvement must not be a talk-show but a well co-ordinated, genuine, sincere and above all a strategic programme to produce a destination branding strategy owned by its national stakeholders. This approach is premised on the organisation or programme, in this case government tourism agencies such as (the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority and others) establishing and maintaining solid, functional, formal and systematic relationships with constituent groups of a legitimate or salient nature, that affect or are affected by its decisions. Secondly, the approach is also premised on the nature of these relationships in terms of processes and outcomes for the organisation/ programme and its stakeholders. Stakeholder consultations should be transparent, all inclusive, business oriented and orderly. Thirdly the interests of all legitimate or salient stakeholders must have intrinsic value and that no set of interests is assumed to dominate the others. The above arguments especially the third assumption emphasises that the organisations that run with DB, should treat the interests of all stakeholders as ends. In this way DB strategy should shape its decisions according to the interests of all its stakeholder groups instead of its shareholders only. Implementation of meaningful stakeholder engagement Accommodation or inclusion known collectively as stakeholder management can be implemented in a variety of ways. Firstly, there is need for continuous relationships with stakeholders. Secondly, stakeholders can be assigned more formal roles by integrating them into the organization`s or programme decision making. Thirdly, the programme might choose to consult them from time to time in order to gain an improved understanding of their interests. This is the hallmark of meaningful involvement of stakeholders in the entire tourism ecosystem that will make DB strategy a serious business concern for the enhanced tourism performance in Zimbabwe. Marketing of a destination should not be merely to differentiate their tourism products and services but to address the strategic objectives of all stakeholders for sustainability. Collaborative destination marketing stakeholders will be involved in the following stages. 1. Pre-conditions for marketing: they have to adapt their products and services to suit the environment and current trends in terms of the physical product, social factors and technology. Destination management stakeholders will match certain types of demand and develop appropriate tourism products and brand destinations for the potential target markets. 2. They motivate stakeholders to enter into such strategy to achieve their specific goals. 3. They get involved intimately and meaningfully into the dynamics of the collaborative marketing processes. NB. Stakeholders mostly collaborate and play a critical role in response to the needs of the consumer. A stakeholder is responsible for building a once in a lifetime experience for tourists, which will be one of the goals for tourists when they travel to a destination. Stakeholders provide an overall excellent product, service quality and tourism infrastructure. In contrast, poor roads, inconvenient transportation and bad hotel services can degrade the tourists experience and ultimately the destination brand. Stakeholder involvement, participation and even partnerships lead to destination competitiveness and enhanced tourism performance to contribute meaningfully to economic development and employment creation. Outcomes of stakeholder involvement for DB Stakeholder involvement in DB strategy is central to the establishment of an appealing, compelling, satisfying and fulfilling destination brand that is believable, authentic and progressive. In this case successful destination branding and brand management depends on the vital role of public and private sector stakeholders. Proponents of the stakeholders’ approach argue that the identification of stakeholders is crucial to the delivery of the destination brand and examination of the positioning process and the creation of results oriented strategy. New Zealand is often cited as a highly successful story of DB through stakeholder partnership and harnessing on non-traditional media. The country has been able to create a powerful travel destination brand, positioned as an appealing niche player in the global tourism fraternity. 1. Destination Branding Strategy All Stakeholder inclusivity and participation Government level: Office of the President and Cabinet Private sector representation (CZI, ZNCC, Chamber of Mines, Banks, Insurance Companies, etc..) Civic entities (Rural and Urban Councils, Pressure groups) Academics and Researchers Youth organisations Communities Relevant line Ministries Churches Zimbabwe Tourism Authority Safari Operators 2. and 4. Government (Line Ministries and Parastatals Tourism, Foreign Affairs , Information and Publicity, Economic Development and Finance, Roads and Public Works Industry and Commerce, Health etc Zimbabwe Tourism Authority Parastatal: ZIMRA, ZINARA, NRZ, ZESA, TelOne, Parks and Wildlife Management. 3. Private Sector And Academic Interests Tourism Services ( Hotels, Touring Companies, Taxis, Catering Companies, Airlines, Research Institutions, Media, Mobile Companies, Cleaning Companies, Aviation etc..) Lodges Zimbabwe Council Of Tourism Hospitality Associtaion of Zimbabwe Zimbabwe Tourism Authority CZI,ZNCC,Chamber of mines,Empowerment groups 5. Monitoring and Evaluation Research Institutions Universities/Colleges Tourism And Hospitality Schools Zimbabwe Tourism Authority National Statistical Office Data Companies Media Ministry Of Tourism and Hospitality Dr Musekiwa Clinton Tapera is writing in his personal capacity. He holds a Phd in         Marketing Management and specialised in Destination Branding Of Zimbabwe for tourism performance. He is the Director of Marketing and Public Relations at the Chinhoyi University Of Technology. He can be contacted on the following emails: taperamc@gmail.com or mctaoera@cut.ac.zw