The Herald Ivan Zhakata Arts Correspondent OFTEN we are well versed with history of western countries, remodelled and remade for global appeal. Most Zimbabweans will attest to having being glued to the television throughout all seasons of Game of Thrones or Vikings, which both were fantastic tales of the West’s historic journeys but no one has taken the great African history and put it on the same pedestal. Early this month, the narrative changes as German based Zimbabwean author Phillip Gwatidzo, dropped his first book titled “Changamire Dombo — The Legend”. Many may remember who this character was from high school African history, where they briefly touched on his rise and takeover of the empire that had been formerly ruled by the Mutapa tribe. Gwatidzo said he felt the need to bring back this segment of history in a fictional tale that is inspired by true events. “We are living in times where inspiration from our identity may be the first dose we need to regain our pride and self-belief in who we were, where we came from and who we can be if we embrace our identity,” he said. “Changamire Dombo — The Legend is not just a story tell, but an explosively visual read, that takes you back into the 1600s, and makes you feel like you were physically present in this timeline, serving as the King’s first hand. “An umami on the emotional palate, it takes you through the birth of this young man, who unfortunate circumstances see him elevated to kingship and defeating the Portuguese raiders in an epic battle that rises him to the ruler of the empire. Being an unorthodox figure, his differences in perspectives help shape up a community and help King Dombo to lead the most successful eras for the native of the lands that run between the Zambezi and the Limpopo rivers.” Gwatidzo said African history waa not celebrated enough and African people have lost their rooting with continental colonialism. He said this led African especially Zimbabweans to being a race that lives on an adopted identity. “Now because we are the only race that has embraced the identity adoption, we will remain second class to the owners of the identities unless we shy away and start celebrating, ourselves, our history and our culture whilst shaping up an independent future. “Changamire Dombo’s story is just one of many inspirational stories from pre-colonial influence. However I chose it because it continues to give me strength years after learning about it, that if a descendent of mine could create such an environment for his people unhindered in the 1600s, then somewhere in this generations are leaders that are blessed with the same capabilities but are not being motivated by the situation enough,” he said. Changamire Dombo is a fictional storyline designed to breathe life into African pride and self-belief into African people, as well as educate those that had misconceptions of African ways and traditions. Gwatidzo said he would love his book to be read by the Ministry of Education in Zimbabwe and embedded into young adult education. “I think this would change the perspective of the learner from starting to view a black person being weak, defeated, lost their land and wealth, enslaved for 100years, instead a sound education on these and like-minded stories sets the foundation that we are a strong and capable people with a strong heritage and the bar of expectations has been set high from the days of the likes of Nyatsimba Mutota and Changamire Dombo himself. Changamire Dombo is currently available on Amazon Worldwide platforms as a Kindle eBook as well as a Paperback edition (Hard copy).