The Herald Columbus Mabika-Herald Reporter This year’s  Independence celebrations will be held without the usual festivities in accordance with World Health Organisation  protocols to minimise spread of Covid-19. However, this year’s edition will see the return of a number of events lined up to spice up the celebrations. The commemorations will be held under the theme “ZIM @41  Together, Growing the Economy for a Prosperous Resilient and Inclusive Society”. In a statement, the Minister of Information, Publicity  and Broadcasting Services, Monica Mutsvangwa said this year’s commemorations will be  treated as a season of celebration stretching into a number of days. “Government wishes to inform the nation on the details of this year’s 41st Independence celebrations. “The 41st Independence commemorations are taking place in a climate of Covid-19 safety restrictions, therefore a lot will happen virtually and congestion will be avoided. Our commemorations are treated as a season of celebration stretching into a number of days.” Minister Mutsvangwa said the celebrations will begin  tomorrow with the national attire design competition. “Following the launch of the national dress fabric by His Excellency, the President, on December  19, 2020, provincial competitions were held across the country with designers coming up with designs for all Zimbabweans to wear and style the national dress fabric. “Therefore, there will be a function this Friday (tomorrow), at the HICC (Harare International Conference Centre), where the provincial winners will contest for the award of best national design. This event is the culmination of the hard work and initiative by the First Lady, Amai Auxilia Mnangagwa, working with the Ministry of Women’s Affairs, Community and Small and Medium Enterprises Development,” she said. She said an online youth  business forum will follow on Saturday, taking place in seven chatrooms with different ministers engaging youths on their interests in different sectors of the economy. On the same day, a children’s party will be held in the evening at State House in Harare while there would also be provincial parties happening across the country led by Ministers of State for Provincial Affairs and Devolution. Minister Mutsvangwa said measures had already been put  in place to keep the children safe. On Saturday, President Mnangagwa  will give  a wide-ranging interview which would be screened on the ZBC TV and on Zimpapers Television Network (ZTN) at 8:30pm. The interview  will also be featured at the same time on national radio stations and online platforms for Diaspora audiences. A virtual concert will be held on the eve of Independence Day. This would avail citizens an opportunity to merry make while in the safe confines of their homes. “Artistes are billed to perform on Saturday from  1800hrs to  Sunday  0600hrs. Police will ensure that only crew and artistes will have access to the venue. Further to this, preventative and precautionary Covid-19 protocols will be observed throughout including sanitisation of equipment, frequent hand washing, wearing of masks and social distancing,” she said. A fireworks display will take place at midnight on Sunday from the HICC and would be broadcast on ZBC TV for the benefit of the nation. Minister Mutsvangwa said President Mnangagwa will address the nation at 1130hrs on Sunday. His address will be broadcast live on television, all national radio stations and on online platforms. The Independence trophy match pitting long time football foes  Dynamos and Highlanders will spice up the celebrations at  13:00hrs in the afternoon. The match will be closed to the general public with only 50 officials and team members being allowed to attend. The match will be live on ZBC TV and radio. The Independence Trophy will be presented by Vice President Chiwenga, who will be the guest of honour.