The Herald Ellina Mhlanga-Senior Sports Reporter FOLLOWING her election into the Zimbabwe Olympic Committee board, seasoned journalist Merit Munzwembiri, says she is looking forward to the country’s sport at a bigger scale. Munzwembiri got 22 votes during Sunday’s elections. “First, I feel honoured, and humbled, to be elected on to the ZOC Board,’’ she told The Herald. “The trust that the associations have demonstrated, by electing me, cannot be undervalued. “I want to acknowledge the work of the outgoing board and would focus on building on the legacy that has been left for us. “We have to continue to build on the success, and strength, left by our predecessors, as well as bringing in new ideas, to ensure the organisation remains well governed.’’ She has been involved in a number of capacity building programmes, run by the ZOC, among them the Advanced Sport Management Course. “Through this programme, I was able to understand the holistic picture of the Olympic movement, sport governance at national level, and globally,’’ she said. “This programme also contributed to building strong networks with like-minded people in sport. “This has strengthened my skills, and raised my interest, in sports administration. The experience was next to none and eye-opening.” She was part of Team Zimbabwe for the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, an experience she says, helped raise her interest in sports administration. “This is a huge honour for me and I owe it to the athletes, to uphold myself with integrity, and deliver the mandate, in line with good governance, and best practices in line with my role,’’ she said. “I am a media personality, who has practiced as a sports reporter and gained immense insight into issues to do with Zimbabwean sport. “I believe that experience gives me a good vantage point as I have interacted with almost every association, giving me an opportunity to speak from an informed position, which can be able to help our local sports, in terms of what strategies to adopt. “I have indicated that I assume this role with a personal desire to see improved engagement between the media and National Sports Associations. “I would like to see NSAs improve on their communications structures because, too often, the media has raised issues, regarding sports administrators and athletes, are not so forthcoming to the media. “Undeniably, the media is a key stakeholder in the growth of Zimbabwe sport. “More importantly, however, at the centre of my focus, I will try to push to see more support going towards identified junior athletes.’’ She is also hoping to see the media advancing the Olympic values and improved coverage of women in sports. “I desire to see the media playing a key role in advancing Olympic values, and ensuring that this is inculcated at a youthful stage, especially in schools, colleges and universities. “And, that we advance quality participation at the main Summer Olympics level and development at Youth Olympics level. “Improved coverage of women sports is also at the core of what I wish to see being up scaled and that, as a Committee, we must be more athlete-centred for us to achieve the winning nation dream that I dearly hold,” said Munzwembiri.