The Herald Tadious Manyepo in SHAMVA GOVERNMENT have thrown their full weight behind the renovations at Wadzanai Stadium in Shamva. ZIFA Northern Region Soccer League side, Simba Bhora, with the help of the Shamva community, are carrying out refurbishments, on the 7 000-seater venue. Deputy Minister of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation toured the stadium, in the company of stakeholders, and hailed the facility. Acting Sports Commission director general, Sebastian Garikai, ZIFA technical director, Wilson Mtekede, national teams general manager, Wellington Mpandare, also joined in the tour. Machakaire said Simba Bhora owners, led by their president Simba “Buju’’ Ndoro, deserve Government support. “This is an incredible project being undertaken here,” Machakaire said. “We all know that we are trying to improve the standards of the game in the country and stadiums need to be of the highest standards. “To have a community like Shamva, working so hard to have a good stadium, is something we all need to appreciate. “As Government, we are fully behind initiatives like this. “We have to support this project and we salute the Shamva community for coming up, and working towards developing a standard stadium, in their community.” Machakaire challenged other communities to emulate what’s being done in Shamva. “We are working hard to develop and upgrade stadiums throughout the country. “We are happy to see some people working so hard to complement Government’s efforts in upgrading stadiums across the country. “We wish to see all communities, in the country, emulating what’s being done here. “As Government, we are behind initiatives like these. “We wish to see more communities, and football clubs, doing the same. We also wish to see other sports facilities, other than football stadiums, being developed across the country.” Mtekede said Simba Bhora should be hailed for taking the lead in transforming their hometown stadium. “This is a great initiative that we have seen here,” said Mtekede. “We have been hearing it and we are glad that we have finally witnessed it. “We are calling upon other teams, both in the top-flight and lower leagues, to emulate what Simba Bhora have done. “As a country, we need to work hard and encourage each other, to upgrade our facilities. “Simba Bhora have made a statement and we wish to see the completion of the project into a top stadium. “We are very thankful to teams like Simba Bhora for taking it upon themselves to address a critical issue like this one.’’ Harare businessman, Musa Gwasira, who is a former PSL fixture-secretary, pledged to help Ndoro, in the renovation of Kuwadzana Stadium. He also donated cement for the refurbishment of Rufaro and Barbourfields.