The Herald LEADING South African sports anchor, Robert Marawa, has brushed aside insinuations from Chippa United that he was one of the main individuals against the club’s appointment of Belgian mentor, Luc Eymael. The world’s most turbulent football club, who have appointed as many as 28 coaches in the last nine  years, were forced to reverse their decision to appoint Eymael, amid an uproar, in South Africa. The Belgian was forced out of Tanzania, where he coached Young Africans, for making some racist comments. Marawa, who anchors a popular sports show on SABC radio, and Umhlobo Wenene FM’s Putco Mafani, bore the brunt of Chippa United’s anger, in their 1600-worded statement. However, Marawa, brushed off the attack. “I passed out after three paragraphs. Got bored‚ passed out after three paragraphs,” Marawa said while Mafani gave a more detailed response. “I mean the SABC is consistent in responding on behalf of on-air personalities‚” he told TimesLIVE. “Because we are not the only ones who regarded this story as news-breaking, being a sports story‚ where Chippa United are a sports club.” Chippa confirmed they will abort their plans to appoint Luc Eymael, acknowledging that public and political pressure, derailed their planned more. The club said “unsubstantiated‚ unethical and prejudicial actions of, in particular Robert Marawa’s show‚ which on top of Marawa himself clearly expressing bias‚ invited a political party and a niche union representing coaches to express their views on what are his views‚ including the publicly stated intention to disrupt Chippa’s upcoming fixtures,” had exerted pressure on them. Chippa’s statement said they wanted to “dispel certain misinformation that has been peddled in the media regarding Chippa’s said position . . . and lastly to condemn the reckless manner in which the matter has been aired through the . . . SABC‚ firstly in December of 2020 and currently on sports shows. “Chippa decided in December 2020 to appoint Eymael . . . Whilst we had no concrete details at the time of appointment‚ we were aware of the media reports regarding an alleged racist incident in Tanzania‚ and Mr Eymael’s reported responses denying the accusations. “Following a backlash and public outcry that ostensibly followed a statement by the South African Football Association (Safa) and several broadcasts‚ Chippa decided to  . . . abandon its plans. “It must be stated that the decision . . . was not based on any concrete evidence or legal position regarding the claims against Eymael‚ but was rather informed by the club’s sensitivity to the gravity of the accusations against Eymael‚ the public outcry and to also allow the matter to be fully investigated. “By this time, however‚ substantial reputational and financial damage had occurred against the club‚ caused by broadcasts‚ largely on the Robert Marawa World Wide sports shows on Metro FM and Radio 2000 on the SABC and statements from political organisations and stakeholders condemning Eymael’s appointment. “Chippa United proceeded in January 2021 to approach the Ethics Committee of FIFA . . . to seek clarity on whether there was any ban issued against the appointment of Eymael‚ or any matters pending before it. “FIFA responded in summary that it would look into the matter and would take action if required. Nothing further followed from FIFA confirming any ban and/or pending proceedings against Eymael. “Following the departure of coach Dan Malesela after a string of extremely poor results‚ Eymael contacted the chairman of Chippa (Mpengesi) to confirm that he had independently sought to clear his name‚ including addressing SAFA‚ who, on his version, confirmed to him that there were no proceedings against him. “Eymael furthermore confirmed that there were no proceedings from the Tanzanian FA nor from FIFA against him. “The chairman of Chippa in response contacted the CEO of Safa‚ Mr Tebogo Motlanthe‚ to request written confirmation that there were no legal grounds to prevent the appointment of Eymael and furthermore that there were no proceedings against him through the local Ethics Committee. “During this conversation it became clear to Chippa that there was no legal basis to prevent the appointment of Eymael and Chippa proceeded to appoint him in the position of technical director on condition that Safa clears him in writing and that he receives the necessary work visa.” Chippa said Eymael will now return to Belgium. “Chippa have decided not to continue with Eymael’s appointment‚ who will proceed to return to Belgium. “It is clear that Eymael himself requires further time to clear his name. He has reassured the club that he will‚ in his own capacity, take legal action concerning his rights‚ including the dissemination of the offending media clip through his own lawyers.” — TimesLive/Sports Reporter