The Herald SINGAPORE. — Anticipating an even-greater surge in their growth, and eyeing the acceleration of esports as a key driver of the economy worldwide, the Global Esports Federation have announced the appointment of Paul J. Foster as chief executive. Foster will assume the role as GEF’s first CEO. Since last April, he has served as Chief Operating Officer. He has been instrumental in overseeing the Singapore-based organisation’s advance since worldwide launch in December 2019 — the GEF now counting more than 80 Member Federations and well over 100 partnerships. Such growth, amid a global pandemic, is testament both to Foster’s capability and capacity and to the demand the GEF has confronted, Chris Chan, president of the Global Esports Federation, said. He added the GEF intend, in the coming months, to launch initiatives to power up recruitment and enhance diversity, equality, and inclusion with a mandate to increase size and scale. “With esports becoming increasingly relevant both to the broader economy and to the development of many countries, the GEF is poised for tremendous growth,” Chan said. “The GEF Board and I trust in Paul’s vision and leadership.” This year, the GEF intend to stage the first of their global events portfolio, the Global Esports Games, and intensify regional action through their #worldconnect initiatives — integrating the rise of active esports along with virtual and digital forms of sport. The GEF Board has affirmed a commitment to lifelong learning that creates opportunities via internships and management positions across all verticals. Partnerships are in progress with major universities. Plans are underway for GEF centers in the Americas, Asia, Europe, and the MENA region. As the GEF evolve, they remain a committed partner in driving the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals – in pursuit of its deep social responsibility to connect and convene, and in alignment with the UN Secretary-General’s call to a “Decade of Action.” Foster said, “The GEF offers a global, inclusive, and connected platform. When we began this journey, we had a framework for potential, a bunch of ideas. ‘’We simply said, everyone is welcome, a notion of radical inclusivity. We engaged constantly, guided only by a set of values. From that naturally came a spirit of boundless innovation. That drives our work.” — GEF.