The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter HOW does one describe this — a miracle, a dream come true, a sensational victory, the day David destroyed Goaliath? Whatever, it doesn’t matter, what we know is that this is just incredible. The kind of result, and performance which, 20 years from now, kids will be asking — where were you when it all unfolded, at Harare Sports Club, that day? Well, for the record, Zimbabwe scripted a dramatic 19-run win over Pakistan in the second T20I yesterday, to break a long-standing jinx, which had stretched 15 games. It was unfortunate fans were not allowed into the match because of the Covid-19 measures. But, captain of the day, Brendan Taylor, who stood in the place of Sean Williams, commanded his troops well on the field, as the Chevrons came back from the dead, to defend the lowest total, at the home of domestic cricket. The Chevrons had stumbled to 118/9, in their allotted 20 overs, after they were asked to bat first, on what looked like a difficult wicket. It was also the first time that Zimbabwe won a T20I game at home, since 2016, when they upset India. All-rounder Luke Jongwe, who returned to the national team fold after a five-year hiatus, had an unforgettable performance, as the Chevrons bowled out their much-fancied opponents, for just 99 runs. Jongwe was named man-of-the-match, after taking four wickets, including two in the final over, when Pakistan needed 20 runs to win, from the last six balls. He was also involved in the run out of Usman Qadir, in the first ball of the decisive over, as Pakistan scampered for the required runs. Earlier on, Jongwe had given Zimbabwe hope, after he claimed the wicket of Pakistan’s star man, Babar Azam (41). He also accounted for Mohammad Rizwan (13), whose unbeaten half ton flattened Zimbabwe, in the first encounter. The 26-year-old was over the moon after returning his career best figures of 4-18. He dedicated the win to the Zimbabwe population, currently battling to contain the spread of Covid-19. “Firstly, I want to thank the Almighty God for this victory and my teammates for this achievement,’’ he said. “This one is for the 15 million Zimbabweans. In these Covid-19 times, I hope we have given you something you can cheer about.’’ Taylor hailed his team. “A big turnaround from the first game,” said Taylor. “That’s all you can ask for, from your players. I think they were very professional in the field and the bowling. “They had clear minds and executed their plans brilliantly, so I couldn’t have asked for more today. “I can’t say I was confident but, with the character shown within the first half, I thought well we have a half chance. “So we had to dig deep and we managed to squeeze Pakistan. “Our commitment and determination got us over the line.” The seasoned top order wicketkeeper/batsman is looking forward to an improved performances from the batsmen tomorrow. “As a batting unit, we need to fire a little bit better in the Powerplay; get a decent start and then that takes off the pressure on the middle order. I think we need more partnerships to get over 140-150 runs,” said Taylor. The victory set up an exciting stage for tomorrow’s final encounter, after Zimbabwe levelled the series, 1-1. The host had slumped to an 11-run defeat, in the opening match, on Wednesday. They made up for their poor workmanship with the bat yesterday by putting up a polished performance in the field. Unlike the first game, when they dropped a couple of catches, Zimbabwe players did not make such mistakes, yesterday. Neither did they give away too many extras. Ryan Burl took two wickets while the attacking duo of Blessing Muzarabani and Richard Ngarava capped off a fine day, with a wicket each. Tinashe Kamunhukamwe was the top scorer for Zimbabwe, with 34 runs, although he needed 40 balls to achieve that. Most of the Zimbabwean batsmen failed to rise to the challenge with Regis Chakabva’s 18, the second highest score, for the home team. Mohammad Hasnain and Danish Aziz took two wickets apiece. Pakistan innings were supposed to be a routine dash to the finishing line, considering the low target. However, the tourists suffered an unexpected implosion. They were strangled to their lowest batting total against the Chevrons, in T20I, after losing their last seven wickets for 21 runs. Still, Pakistan needed 32 runs from the last two overs, with five wickets in hand. But, then, they lost Faheem Ashraf at the beginning of the penultimate over, off the bowling of Muzarabani. The next ball was driven to the boundary by Danish Aziz (22), to maintain the suspense. But, two balls later, he was run out, in an attempt to squeeze a second run. Pakistan were 92/7 and were now pinning hopes on the tail-enders to take them home. Then, there was a huge six, from new batsman Haris Raul, to leave Pakistan in need of 20 runs, to win from the last over. Jongwe did well and Usman Qadir was run out, at the non-striker’s end, for a duck, following some confusion, with Haris Rauf. Then Jongwe handed Zimbabwe the victory with a brace of wickets, after Haris lofted an easy catch to Taylor and debutante Ishard Iqbal, was caught by Burl. “We played poor cricket. Credit to Zimbabwe who came back so strongly today,” said Pakistan skipper, Azam. “We continue to struggle in the middle order, but we need guys to step up. “The wicket was similar to the other day, but it was double-paced. That’s not an excuse, we’re a professional side, and we should have chased this down.” His opposite number, Williams, sat out yesterday’s match as he was recuperating from a soft tissue injury, to his left hand. The team’s medical unit recommended that he be rested, as a precautionary measure, to try and get him fully fit, ahead of the more demanding Test series against the same opponents, next week.