The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Cricket prodigy Tadiwanashe Marumani is proving that the future is bright for the nation after scoring back-to-back half centuries for Southern Rocks in the domestic T20 tournament currently underway in Harare. The former Zimbabwe Under-19 player was the toast of the day on Monday morning after guiding Southern Rocks to a comfortable seven-wicket win over Tuskers. This was their second victory in as many games in the competition, which began at the weekend. Marumani was unbeaten on 63 runs as Rocks successfully chased down Tuskers’ 141/6, with 19 balls remaining. Rocks, who have now won all their two matches, won the toss in the morning and put Tuskers to bat. Veteran Roy Kaia and debutant Delan Hondo stifled the progress from the Tuskers batsmen with five wickets shared between themselves, despite the resistance from skipper Brian Chari (47) and Luke Jongwe (41, not out). Kaia was the pick of the bowlers with 3/21 while Hondo finished with 2/31. In response, Rocks lost their explosive opener, Cephas Zhuwawo (10) early after he had started off in familiar fashion, hitting a four and a six in the four balls he faced. Brian Mudzinganyama and captain, Richmond Mutumbami, departed for identical 23 runs before Marumani teamed up with Kaia (14, not out) to cross the line. The 19-year-old top order batsman needed 30 balls for his second T20 half ton in the morning. The knock comprised of six boundaries and three maximums. This has ignited a tense debate whether he is ripe for the senior national team ahead of the upcoming T20 International series against Pakistan. Marumani’s maiden half ton came on Sunday off just 19 deliveries when Rocks beat Rhinos by four wickets. Eventually he was out, caught and bowled by Ryan Burl, albeit for a match-winning 60 and was voted Man of the Match. The rejuvenated Rocks side, who were playing their first T20 match in seven years, still managed to beat the 158/5 target set by Rhinos.