The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Cestoball Association president, Amon Madzvamuse, believes the participation by their members, in the upcoming international referee and coaches’ course next month, will go a long way in their drive to develop the sport locally. The course, to be held online, is scheduled for May 4. It will be led by international trainers, Antonella Buscaglia and Giuliana Tasca. It will focus on the basics of the sport, infrastructure and equipment, technical elements, umpire’s responsibilities and game regulations. ZICA have 43 members who want to take part in the course – 30 coaches and 10 referees, as well as the national technical director Ziviso Mutambisi, vice-president Annah-Mariah Jirimwe and marketing director Juan Takapfuma. Registration is open until April 29. “This is a new sport code, we don’t have many games here in Zimbabwe but we have major international tournaments,’’ said Madzamuse. ‘‘These coaches will have the knowledge to participate in an international event. So, this is very good as far as ZICA is concerned. “We now have community clubs in various provinces, so, in as far as umpiring or refereeing is concerned, we didn’t have much of the referees to officiate those games. ‘‘This is the opportunity that we want to take advantage of. “This is a very good opportunity for us. ‘‘We are not lagging behind in terms of information, in terms of new changes, and this platform will also give confidence to our coaches as they interact with other coaches.”  From the 30 coaches going to take part in the course, the national association are set to select the best coaches for the Under-17 and Under-21 teams. The selection process will see the coaches, after participating in the course, taking part in the presidential tournament next month. “We are going to have this course, then on the 25th of May, we are going to have a presidential tournament of which, from that tournament, we will then have the winners and select the Under-21 and Under-17 coaches.’’