The Herald Arts Reporter The Marketers Association of Zimbabwe (MAZ) has launched Pachoto, an exclusive forum where men come together to share ideas and discuss several issues in an informal set up around a fire. Pachoto is a concept that has been put in place to demystify that business is only spoken under formal settings and the first edition is set for tomorrow. It will feature Nyaradzo chief executive officer Philip Mataranyika, who is set to share his social and business life with the guests. Speaking at the launch recently, MAZ executive secretary, Gillian Rusike, said the idea of Pachoto was largely inspired by traditional culture of people sitting around a fire and discussing issues. “We want to go back to the traditional way of doing things and go back to our roots where we gather around the fire as men and start talking pertinent issues that are affecting us, be it in business, social life or economics so that we also inspire, inform and educate one another,” he said. “We realise that as men we are usually not open people, we are affected internally as we don’t disclose our issues, but we feel that we can create this concept in an informal way where we call each other on first name basis and we break the cycle of formality and seniority. “We really get to understand and appreciate the issues that are happening around us as the younger generation and younger professionals also want to learn the journey that the seniors have walked.” Pachoto, according to Rusike, will be held under strict Covid-19 regulations and is open to the stipulated number of 50 people. “We will abide by the Government restrictions on Covid-19 regulations, so we are only targeting 50 people to attend this first meeting that we have. We have opened it to our MAZ members for starters, but it will be open to people who are not our members depending on the uptake. “People can feel free to get in touch with us and we can take them into consideration. The platforms are not there because everything seems to be formalised, so we have decided to sit around the fire with the same type of chairs, same settings, and same setup to show that we are equal and start articulating some of these professional and social issues that are affecting us as human beings. “We are of the opinion that once we break the cycle of Mr this and that, we can go a long way.” Rusike said the first speaker for the newly founded Pachoto, Mr Mataranyika, will share how he started his business, funded it and how he is balancing business with family, among other issues. “We have invited iconic people that have walked the journey, for example, Phillip Mataranyika, who has built a multi-million dollar business. We are saying come let us learn on how he has managed to sustain the business. “The wife is involved, as we all know, so we need him to tell us at what level do they meet and discuss business. Do they start in the bedroom or the living room or boardroom? Where do they draw the line between personal money and money for business? Who makes the decisions and who calls the shots? “To make sure that we share ideas, everyone will be free to ask questions. It is an all -jean event. Our starters will be mutakura, as we want to have traditional foods and have our traditional drinks such as mahewu so that we inculcate in our younger generation the traditional way of doing things.” Rusike said they want to hold the discussions on a monthly basis and to discuss topics touching on men’s health, depression and social ills.