The Herald Danai Chitakasha Special Correspondent MANY regions have contributed to the development of Zimbabwe football. One of these is Chiredzi in the Lowveld. Hippo Valley estate gave us a number of legends. The most prominet are Weekly Mwale, a goalkeeper  who played for Wankie, Godfrey Tamirepi, a midfielder who played for Ziscosteel, and Harlington Shereni, who played for CAPS United, Air Zimbabwe Jets, Dynamos, SR Delemont, FC Istres, Guingamp, FC Nantes and RC Strasbourg. All three are products of Hippo Valley High School. Other notable stars to emerge from this football rich estate are Peter Mlilo, a goalkeeper, whose football career was cut short by an incident at the colliery. “He was a good goalkeeper but that error of judgment cost him dear!”, said Dennis Madzingo, a local coach, and teacher, from the Lowveld who now lives in the United Kingdom. Hippo Valley also had a notable football family in the form of the Masimbe clan. “The Masimbe family had Cabin, who played for Ziscosteel and the Zimbabwe Under-20 side, Mikel, nicknamed ‘Tikko’, who trained as a teacher at Bondolfi and played for Kismet, and Patrick, who played for Chisumbanje. ‘’They were all decent players,’’ said Madzingo. Tinashe Bhurami (Hippo Valley and Ziscosteel), Darlington Machuwaire of Tanganda and Govenor Phiri, who also trained at Bondolfi College and played for Kismet United, complete the Hippo Valley roll call of honour. What about Chiredzi? “I am proud that I advised Lloyd Hlahla to train as a teacher,’’ said Madzingo. ‘’The college had an open door policy for talented footballers who had good passes too. ‘’Many are still teaching so they have contributed as footballers and educationists.” Norman Togara came from Chiredzi. And, you had to pay him his dues when they were due. In an interview with Herald correcpondent, Albert Marufu, Togara made his position clear. “People just choose not to understand me. I am a family man and will never tolerate nonsense,’’ he said. ‘’If I am not paid what we agreed on, I will go home to Chiredzi. I run a hardware shop and I also own a house there, unlike in other towns where I have to lodge.’’ He played for Dynamos, FC Platinum, Masvingo United and CAPS United. Another interesting character to emerge from the town is Zvenyika Makonese. He started as a goalkeeper before converting into a centreback. He played  for GMB Chiredzi, ZESA Chiredzi and Triangle before Moses “Bambo” Chunga, on a scouting mission, and took him to Shabanie. He also had a stint in South Africa. Few know Ignatius Msindo, who played for Railstars, but Madzingo said he was such a talent. Others to add to the list are Patrick Khumbulani, who played for Chapungu United and Dynamos, Pardon Chunungwa, a brother to Norman, Tennyson Chatinyare, who played for Karoi United, Black Mambas and Blackpool. Julius Hungwe, the keeper who got Masvingo United promoted into the Premiership, and Taurayi Gokwe, should also be on the list. Mkwasine gave us the twins, Cain and Abel Muteji, who played for Chapungu United and the Zimbabwe Under-23 side, Lloyd Hlahla and Malonga Sithole. I will always cherish the memories of the 1995 All-Africa Games which Zimbabwe hosted. That was a festival of sport, and football, in particular. The heroics of the Young Warriors will be etched in the history of Zimbabwean football forever. Providing the thrust in this team were the Muteji twins. Who can forget the 2-0 victory over Guinea at Barbourfield? Legendary news presenter, Lovemore Banda, for some reason reported as 3-0. “Muteji, Bunjira, Muteji, they might as well form a law firm,’’ he said in his booming voice. We went to bed thinking it was 3-0 and woke up to realise it was 2-0. Anyway, it did not matter, the team was in the final and the Mutejis had played a blinder. Hlahla, who  played for Masvingo United, Dynamos, Amazulu and Shooting Stars, among others, was a lethal striker. He is now teaching at Tynwald Primary School where he continues  to impart his football knowledge. Finally Triangle! Here we have Brighton and Joram Machambo, the goalkeeping brothers who played for Chapungu United. With a son who captained a European club Nantes in France, Harrington Shereni, twins Cain and Abel Muteji, who set the football fratenity ablaze, and a number of footballers who have served their clubs well, Chiredzi can be proud of its contribution to football development in Zimbabwe. – This article was prepared with the help of Dennis Madzingo, the Bondolfi College-trained teacher, who had a stint with Kismet United in Masvingo before moving to Botswana to play for Nico United and Mochudi Center Chiefs. He currently works as an educationist in the UK.