The Herald LONDON. — Jurgen Klopp bemoaned his “surprised” Liverpool players who he claims should have been ready from the start. The Reds lost for the second time this season as they were undone by Southampton which saw them give up more ground in the title race on Monday night. Danny Ings’ winner came after 111 seconds as his smart finish left Alisson with no chance. Liverpool were far from their best in the first-half and took 75 minutes to register a shot on target. It is the second time they’ve failed to score in the space of five days following their goalless draw at Newcastle. Klopp clearly had issues with several elements of his side’s performance but particularly lamented their slow start. He told BBC Sport: “What was disappointing? How long have we got — the start obviously. Not only the goal but the start in general. Congratulations to Southampton they deserved it. “You know exactly what you are going to get from them, you cannot be surprised but we looked surprised. “At the beginning how we played, where we lost the balls, it’s not rocket science. We should have done much better. We played into their hands with the start. “They put a lot of work in. Our decision making was just not good. That is how it is when you don’t have momentum. We should have had much more chances. “These are outstanding players but they were not ready from the start. Sadio Mane should have had a penalty tonight, and there was the handball — I’ve no idea. “It’s not an excuse for the performance but you can get a point if they are given. Now we have to show a reaction.” Liverpool can now be overtaken in the league by both Manchester clubs. They take on Manchester United at Anfield next summer but Manchester City, provided they win their games in hand, can go two points clear of the Reds. Meanwhile, Southampton striker Ings heaped praise upon Ralph Hasenhuttl following the Saints manager’s emotional reaction to his side’s 1-0 victory over Liverpool. The Saints were full value for their victory after Ings’ early lob stunned the champions in a result which moves them just four points off the top of the table. Following the full-time whistle Hasenhuttl appeared to cry tears of joy as he sank to his knees in celebration. And speaking to Sky Sports at full-time, Ings lifted the lid on what the Austrian is like behind closed doors. When asked if Hasenhuttl is normally such an emotional figure, Ings replied: “Yeah, he’s very passionate. I think it’s great for all of us lads to see because he brings that passion into our game. “You can see that in the last few minutes – we’re still trying to break forward, still trying to defend with our lives. “You see the young lads coming on, sprinting back, trying to get into position. It’s not easy to do. “The manager’s got us all working our socks off. It’s really paying off this season.” Hasenhuttl himself tried to sum up his emotions in an interview after the game. He said: “I’ve never taken a point against Jurgen (Klopp) so far. They are so strong and you always believe something can happen. “The way we defended was amazing, it was absolutely the perfect evening for us. “We have had a few other good wins but today nobody expected to win against such a team but I’m very happy that we can benefit from all the effort we put in.” The Saints next take on Shrewsbury in the FA Cup Third Round on Saturday before facing fellow high-fliers Leicester on January 16.