The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter NATIONAL Athletics Association of Zimbabwe (NAAZ) president Tendai Tagara has urged athletes to remain resilient and focused despite the ongoing challenges. NAAZ is one of the associations that have applied to the Sports Commission for exemption since they have a number of regional, continental and international competitions lined-up for this year. They have athletes that are chasing qualification for the Olympic Games set to take place from July 23 to August 8 and need to continue with their preparations if they are to stand a chance of qualification. In June they have the Africa Seniors in Algeria. The World Athletics Under-20 Championships are scheduled for August 17 to 22 in Kenya. Other events include the Southern Region Senior Championships and the African Under-18 as well as the Under-20 competitions. In the absence of schools competition, the national association has indicated it is going to be a challenge in the selection and preparation of teams to compete at those junior events. The National Association of Secondary Schools Heads competitions remain an integral part for the selection of junior teams with talent drawn from the country’s 10 provinces meeting for national events. However, their competitions have been shelved since last year due to the coronavirus outbreak. Although it is not certain how things will shape up for the rest of the year, for the time being, focus is on achieving the times whenever the opportunity arises and coming up with the teams for the scheduled events. In a message he sent out to athletes, Tagara said although the year has not started as they were expecting after a ray of hope late last year when they were able to stage the inter-provincial championships, athletes should not give up. “The athletics year have started on a bad note again but let’s continue hoping for a better year in 2021. “We are under lockdown but the world is moving. The Olympics are still pencilled to go ahead in Japan from July 23 to August 8. The World Juniors are still scheduled to take place in Kenya in August, the Africa Seniors are still there in Algeria in June, African Youth and Junior (events) are still there as well as the Southern Region Seniors. “The world is moving and we are hoping for better days to come. You all agree with me that it’s difficult to plan under Covid-19 but we must continue hoping for better days to come . . . Wherever you are try to keep yourself in shape. “Train in your yard, that small space makes difference. The time shall come when we will physically meet and challenge each other again in the track of our sport and make our sport great again” said Tagara. The NAAZ president urged their members to continue following the Covid-19 guidelines to stay safe.