The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter FALCON Golf Club boss Nicholas Munyonga says the death of veteran golf referee, coach and administrator Tavenganiswa Mabikacheche is a huge blow to golf development and administration in this country. Mabikacheche (68) succumbed to the deadly coronavirus at his home on Wednesday morning and was buried yesterday under strict Covid-19 regulations. He previously served as the Zimbabwe Golf Association (ZGA) vice-president and president of the Manicaland Golf Union. The death of Mabikacheche comes hardly a day after the passing on of another veteran administrator Mafira Mukusha who was instrumental in setting up golf structures in Masvingo and Midlands Provinces. Mukusha was actively involved in golf administration for over 20 years. Known for his Mabikacheche Rural and Urban Sports Promotion (MARUPS), he is credited for unearthing local professional golfer Biggy Chibvuri, who is now competing on the West African Golf Tour. A member of Chapman Golf Club where he held his annual MARUPS junior development programmes, Munyonga said they have lost an elder and golf enthusiast. “We are saddened by the death of one of our members Mabikacheche who was influential at the club.  He helped us a lot with rules whenever there is a misunderstanding. “He groomed several players, especially from Manicaland where he hailed from and golf will never be the same again without him,” said Munyonga. The Zimbabwe Golf Association also paid tribute to their former vice-president, describing him as a dedicated administrator who contributed immensely to local golf. “The Zimbabwe Golf Association has learnt with great sadness the passing away of its former vice-president Mr Tavenganiswa Mabikacheche. He contributed immensely to the sport of golf over the years he was in the association and still continued working for the sport even after he stepped down from the association,” the ZGA board said in a statement. “Over the years he was very active in junior golf development, refereeing and setting up of the Zimbabwe Senior Professionals. Of particular mention is the Mabikacheche Rural and Urban Sport Foundation which worked in promoting the sport of golf in disadvantaged communities. This saw him conducting training lessons in remote areas such as Binga and Chikomba. The foundation was funded from his own pocket and the passion to spread the sport to disadvantaged communities,” they stated.