The Herald Enacy Mapakame Zimbabwe will boost investment in the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) sector this year as part of efforts towards attaining a digitally enabled economy. Good ICT infrastructure improves production efficiencies across socio-economic sectors in line with global trends. Government intends to fully exploit the opportunities presented by ICTs to ensure a conducive business environment that enables new investments by the private sector to keep pace with the rapid evolving ICT landscape. “Technology is the new frontier driving change and transformation within economies and communities. Innovation is transforming and disrupting traditional industries and creating new ones that are driving economic growth and providing platforms for societies to connect, “ said Finance and Economic Development Minister Professor Mthuli Ncube in the 2021 Zimbabwe Infrastructure Investment Development. “The NDS for 2021-2025 seeks to facilitate the attainment of a digitally enabled economy, where all sectors embrace ICTs to improve efficiency and effectiveness, in line with the global trends.” This also comes as global innovators are looking at enhancing economic growth using ICT. Government is also looking at improving the country’s ranking on the ICT Development Index. As of 2017, the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) ICT Development Index (IDI) Report, ranked the country at 136 out of 176 and this was mainly due to limited access to ICT services and high bandwidth costs. In line with this, minister Ncube said focus would be on further deployment of broadband infrastructure, investments in last mile connectivity, smart Government systems and establishment of ICT access centres for marginalised groups. During the 2021 year,  sector regulator — Postal and Telecommunications Regulatory Authority of Zimbabwe (POTRAZ) will through the Universal Services Fund (USF) disburse $500 million for the construction of 10 base stations, with the infrastructure being shared by all players in the industry. This will enhance network expansion and accessibility. Other projects lined up include the rolling out of a 4G network around the country and an investment of $1,9 billion will be required. “In line with the objective of enhancing ICT usage in the country, Government is rolling out e-Government systems in the areas of health, education, agriculture and the judiciary, among others,” said Minister Ncube. “A total of $8 billion will be invested in the sector during 2021, mainly targeting roll out of the optic fibre network, digital television services and access to online public services by citizens.” The e-Government programme which promotes adoption of online platforms will improve public service delivery, resulting in time and cost saving to both citizens and Government. This is also in line with initiatives to enhance ease of doing business in the country. By end of 2020, online services that had been launched include the Deeds Office, Companies and Intellectual Property Rights, where name search and back end processes have been automated whilst for the Liquor Licensing Board, applications are now being received and approved online. Import and export licensing processes are now also being done electronically.