The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter IT’S going to be a while before Zimbabwe host China in the Davis Cup World Group II tennis tie after it was postponed for the second time. Zimbabwe were preparing to host China in March but the tie is now expected to take place in September this year at Harare Sports Club. The World Group II ties were initially scheduled for last September before they were moved to this year following a review of the considerable logistical and regulatory challenges due to the coronavirus pandemic. Zimbabwe were scheduled to host China in March but after discussions involving Tennis Zimbabwe, the International Tennis Federation and the Sports Commission, a decision was made to move the event to September. Tennis Zimbabwe manager, Cliff Nhokwara, said there is a lot to consider, including the current lockdown and its effects on preparations. “Obviously the current lockdown has a big influence on the happenings. As much as preparations were ongoing, they weren’t as smooth as we would have preferred. “And also ITF are also monitoring the happenings not just in Zimbabwe but the world over in terms of tennis competition and the risk of Covid-19. So discussions with ITF and obviously the Sports Commission influenced our position to play the tie in September,” said Nhokwara. All sporting activities in the country are currently suspended. The TZ manager pointed out that the ongoing situation also made it difficult to ensure they are ready for the tie. “We are looking at the current lockdown, we don’t know how long it will last… And then you don’t want to risk to host an international tournament right in the middle of a crisis. “So we thought it was too risky to play in March let alone to do all the preparations involved with a lot of people coming to Harare Sports Club and the engagement of all stakeholders also. So that could have created a huge risk not just to the players but to the administrators as well in terms of preparations and obviously the other stakeholders. “And as much as somebody might be physically ready but mental toughness, mental preparations, there are so many other aspects, so it’s risky. “We don’t want to play China just as a way of completing a tie, we want to give China a good run, obviously we want to win that event. So we have to be ready in every aspect,” Nhokwara said. Zimbabwe won their first tie against Syria in March last year at Harare Sports Club.