The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
CHAMPION boxer, Charles Manyuchi, has been keeping a low profile since his TKO victory over Argentine Pablo Acosta which helped him claim the WBF middleweight title in September 2019. In fact, he hasn’t been in the ring since then and could only return this March against Ugandan boxer, Mahomed Sebyala, for the right to retain his WBF crown. The 31-year-old pugilist, was supposed to defend the belt in Harare in April last year but the contest was called off due to the Covid-19 pandemic barely a week before the scheduled date. WBF, which normally mandate title holders to defend their honours within six months from the date of victories, have continually allowed Manyuchi to keep the belt until the situation is ideal for a return to action. Yet, the former WBC silver welterweight champion finds himself in a dilemma as he can’t have proper preparations since all sporting activities are currently banned as part of Covid-19 restrictions.  Manyuchi, though, is expected to defend the title in Harare this March. The Zimbabwe Wrestling and Boxing Control Board have started engaging the authorities with a view to get clearance to be allowed to hold monthly tournaments and help prepare boxers and wrestlers for international competitions.  Manyuchi coach Ali “Otto” Phiri yesterday said he was hoping the clearance would be given soon. “In terms of training, normally, it’s not a very big problem. “Boxing is an individual sport and boxers can train at home alone,” said Phiri. “However, the problem is always the lack of sparring partners. Boxing is a competition just like any other sport and one ought to have sparring partners because one always needs to gauge where they are. “We are grateful to the WBF for allowing us all the time to keep the belt until the situation normalises a bit. “The Zimbabwe Wrestling and Boxing Control Board have already started engaging with the relevant authorities, with a view to hold tournaments, which will allow us to prepare for the WBF title defence. “Manyuchi is rusty, having gone for over 16 months, without a bout. “We hope the board will be successful in their efforts and we may get time to, at least, begin preparing for the WBF fight.” Manyuchi will have to shed a lot of the weight he has gained during the entire period he has been inactive.  The Chivhu-based pugilist has already started intensive training ahead of the March contest whose venue ia yet to be determined but ia likely to be in Harare.