The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter DELTA Force Boxing Academy’s boxer Revai Madondo says she is up for the task ahead of her fight against Stumai Muki on January 29 in Tanzania. Madondo will take on Tanzanian boxer Muki in one of the several supporting bouts for the WBF International super-featherweight match between Ibrahim Class and Dennis Mwale. Despite a constrained training programme due to the lockdown restrictions in Zimbabwe, Madondo is holding her head high and says she is going for a win, come January 29. “I have been training hard. It’s only that the lockdown affected us but we are pushing. Although I have not had much time, I believe I am ready for the fight based on the work we have been putting in over the past few days. “Coming into preparations for this fight, I had been working alone until my trainer Clyde Musonda who was not around came back. We have covered a lot of ground, you know it’s different when you train alone and when the coach is there, and he pushes you a bit. “Now we are working on our game-plan. I now know my opponent I have seen her videos, so I know how to approach the fight and I am going there for a win,” said Madondo. Madondo, who turned professional in 2017, says it’s good to be back in the ring after a two-year break prior to her last fight, last December in a charity event. “My last fight was against Kudakwashe Chivandire on December 26 last year. I just wanted to get used to be in the ring because it was two years since I had a fight. “It was a good fight and it helped me identify some of the areas I needed to work on and that is what we have been trying to correct so that I am ready for the fight on the 29th. “I turned professional in 2017 and I have made some progress, I am now a better boxer. I believe I am a good boxer now and I have been talking to my trainer, we are looking at bigger things for the future. “And this upcoming fight I am taking it as part of my training,” said Madondo. She is expected to leave for Tanzania early next week and her trainer Clyde Musonda said they are now polishing up their preparations. Musonda paid tribute to their sponsors who have been on board supporting the boxer financially with her upkeep and is confident she will deliver the good in Tanzania on January 29.