The Herald KARACHI. — Pakistan’s Federal Minister for Science and Technology, Fawad Chaudhry, has announced that esports will be recognised as an official sport by the nation. Writing on Twitter, Chaudhry announced the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding that would recognise esports as a “regular sport” in Pakistan. “A memorandum has been signed between the Pakistan Sports Body and Pakistan Science Foundation after which esports will get regular sports status,” said Chaudhry. “If you are interested in video games, get ready as new opportunities are waiting for you.” Last month, Chaudhry told television host Waqar Zaka that a national level esports tournament was scheduled to take place in March through a private sponsor, stating that the gaming industry is growing annually in Pakistan by 20 per cent. Arslan Ash, a Tekken player from the country, put esports on the map for Pakistan after winning the EVO Championship Series Japan and EVO Championship series in 2010. Esports has grown across the world, with the International Esports Federation, one of the organisations who lay claim to governing esports having 98 member associations. Most of these are in Europe and Asia, while Africa and the Americas continue to develop their membership numbers. Meanwhile, the British Esports Association has partnered with the Coalition of Parents in Esports ©BEA The British Esports Association has partnered with the Coalition of Parents in Esports (COPE) to spread awareness of esports and promote education on the discipline. COPE was set up by David Herzog, the father of Fortnite professional “Crimz”, and Shae Williams, the mother of “Duster”, a content creator for esports organisation Vanish. It offers advice on player contracts, tax on prize winnings, practice regimes, player well-being and educational and career opportunities. COPE was set up when Williams and Herzog realised there were countless other parents conducting research into esports, so offers a chance for parents to pool knowledge and experiences. The parents also intend to erase negative stigmas attached to competitive gaming and encourage the career opportunities presented to young people by esports. “Like any sport, parental involvement is key to success,” said COPE co-founder and former IBM executive Williams. “We want to encourage parents to get more involved in understanding their child’s passion and helping them get the most out of their esports experiences.” Anne Fish, mother of British Fortnite player “Benjyfishy”, and Johnny Troset Andersen, the father of 100 Thieves member “MrSavage”, are among the other parents now involved in COPE. The British Esports Association says it will work with COPE to produce and promote streams and interviews with the parents of esports professionals. It will also connect parents seeking guidance with COPE. “COPE has done a lot of good work in a short amount of time and we’re delighted to be partnering with them, to help spread the message of esports,” said Tom Dore, head of education at the British Esports Association. “We look forward to continuing to educate other parents and up-and-coming esports talent around the world, to help them make a successful career in esports and reap the rewards.” — Agencies.