The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter THE Sports Commission’s acting director-general, Sebastian Garikai, says there are no short-cuts in the application for special exemptions. He has criticised some national sport associations for sending their requests to resume sporting activities late. Currently, all sporting activities have been frozen by the Government, under the new lockdown measures to help curb the rising cases of coronavirus in the country. Only sports associations who have scheduled commitments need to submit applications, for a review, and these are being dealt with on a case-by-case basis. However, there has been an outcry from the sports fraternity that the process was taking too long to be completed. Garikai told The Herald yesterday the process to review the applications was being done expeditiously as it goes through various offices for screening and have since notified associations to send in their requests early. “From the onset of these lockdowns, the Sports and Recreation Commission has given National Sport Associations guidelines on the application process and the stages involved,” he said. Application are assessed by the Sports Commission Covid-19 committee, which is made up of the Sports Commission board, management, epidemiologists and expertise in pandemic management and containment, including sport administration. The Committee then makes recommendations to the Minister of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation, Kirsty Coventry, who — in consultation with the Minister of Health and Child Care — will either approve or reject the application based on the submissions made. “We have also reiterated the need for the same to plan in advance and ensure they submit their applications within reasonable time frames, including training and preparation times, before the actual event date. “This was to allow for implementation of all processes involved from application receipt to communication of approval. “You may appreciate the various stages involved in the application review process, which involves other stakeholders external to the Sports Commission. “Regrettably, some national sport associations expect to be exempted from this process as they will submit their application today and expect feedback within two days. ‘’This is simply not attainable. “There are no exemptions to the thorough review process and every stage is extensively evaluated as this is a matter of national interest. “The Sports Commission, therefore, continues to implore national sport associations to apply in time to enable ample time for processing and to engage our offices directly with regard to the status of their applications,” Garikai said. The Sports Commission this week gave clearances to ZIFA, Zimbabwe Cricket, Tennis Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe Golf Association and the National Paralympic Committee. ZIFA had applied on behalf of FC Platinum, to enable the Zvishavane side, to participate in the CAF Confederation Cup. Zimbabwe Cricket are set to send their senior men’s team for an away series against Afghanistan while the women’s team were also granted permission to host Pakistan in Harare next month. The national Paralympic team were given the greenlight to travel to Dubai and participate at the Dubai 2021 World Para-Athletics Grand Prix from February 5-14. Some local golfers were also cleared to participate in the South African Swing Golf tournament while junior tennis players were given the approval to prepare for the Gaborone ITF tournament from February 1-13. The junior tennis players were also scheduled to participate at the Dubai ITF tournament which ends tomorrow. The approvals came with set conditions that are specific to each sport code in addition to the requirements specified in Statutory Instrument 200 of 2020, World Health Organisation guidelines, other legislation and policy directives as well as measures submitted by respective applicants relating to the prevention and containment of Covid-19. “As communicated to National Sport Associations, the Sports and Recreation Commission has an open-door policy, therefore, National Sport Associations who would want a status of their applications, or assistance on any matter sport-related, should engage our offices,” said Garikai. “We have conducted several update engagements with other National Sport Associations who were following up on their applications. “We, therefore, encourage all National Sport Associations who would have submitted applications to engage SRC accordingly before seemingly exerting pressure through media on a process that is of national Interest and which involves several stakeholders. “As a point of clarity, the Sports and Recreation Commission, in October 2020, issued a statement clarifying the application process, and the stages and parties involved, in conducting the same. “Prior to the 2 January announcement, applicants were advised to allow a 30-day window period between application submission and actual event date. “However, the applications that are being received after the lockdown pronouncement are being processed within ten days.”