The Herald Crime Reporter Police has launched investigations into reports that some businesspeople in the Borrowdale area have turned stables at the race course into illegal fruit and flea markets over weekends in flagrant violation of Covid-19 national lockdown regulations. Although agriculture produce markets are allowed to open, clothing markets were ordered to close to prevent the further spread of the pandemic. The Herald understands that since January 16, over 60 vendors have been operating during weekends at the race course, selling various fruits and other products. The vendors come from different places and are reportedly charged US$10 for a table per day to sell their wares. Since an advert was run on social media reading, “Open Saturday 16th January . . . Old Stables Market . . . Your trusted source of goodness”, vendors have been thronging the area. The vendors start operating from 6am and close around 3pm. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi yesterday said they had received reports that a certain company was distributing groceries to people at the race course. “We have since launched investigations on the case, but according to the reports that we had obtained on the ground, there is a certain registered company that is distributing groceries to people that were bought by relatives and friends from South Africa,” he said. Asst Comm Nyathi said the company alleged it had obtained documents from the relevant authorities to conduct the distribution process of the groceries and goods. Efforts to get comment from one of the people operating the market identified as Mrs Vicky Bowen were fruitless yesterday as her mobile phone went unanswered. Investigations carried out by The Herald on Saturday revealed that during the week, there will be horses on the stables, but on weekends, the area is turned into vending stalls. The Herald witnessed various people visiting the area to purchase various products and the car park was almost full with vehicles. At the entrance, there was a security guard who made sure that some of the people were sanitised before gaining entry into the premise. Some of the vendors said over 200 people visit the market per day to buy products. Most of the people were wearing their face masks properly. The latest development comes after various fruit and vegetable markets and flea markets’ have been closed during this national lockdown period. At the start of the year, Government announced a nationwide curfew from 6pm to 6am under the level four national lockdown, banned social gatherings except for funerals whose numbers have been limited to 30. Intercity bus services have also been banned with only essential service providers allowed to operate, but closing at 3pm.