The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter THE Sports Commission’s acting director-general Sebastian Garikai said they shall conduct extensive environmental and operation scans for every application to conduct any sporting or recreation activity in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. In a statement released yesterday by the Sports Commission, Garikai said the country’s supreme sports body, in consultation with relevant stakeholders, will be going a step further to ensure safety and welfare of athletes and everyone involved in sport and recreational activities. This comes after nine players and five officials in the Warriors camp for CHAN tested positive for the virus this week. “All NSAs (National Sport Associations) have been advised on the importance of strict adherence to the Covid-19 prevention and containment measures. “Going forward, SRC in consultation with the relevant stakeholders shall conduct extensive environmental and operation scans for every application to conduct any sporting or recreational activity before authorisation as guided by the Minister (of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation) and the Ministry of Health and Child Care,” said Garikai. Garikai said the development in the Warriors camp is unfortunate but acknowledged ZIFA for their efforts in following the provided protocols. “The Sports and Recreation sector continues to be vigilant in guarding against complacency in the containment of Covid-19 moreso in view of the current prevailing second wave of the pandemic. “The recent development whereby a number of the men’s national soccer team and technical staff who are in camp preparing for the CHAN 2021 tournament in Cameroon have tested positive to the virus is indeed regrettable. “However, we acknowledge the efforts by ZIFA in following provided protocols in line with the containment of the virus. Their adherence to laid down procedures and protocols for the prevention and containment of Covid-19 prevented further spread of the virus to the whole team as all team members were tested upon their return to camp,” said Garikai. They are now working with the country’s football mother-body in monitoring the situation. “The Sports and Recreation Commission is working closely with ZIFA and closely monitoring the situation on the ground to ensure that the team remains in camp albeit with strict adherence to protocols and procedures in this regard,” Garikai said. The Sports Commission revealed early last month that 32 national sport associations had been approved to resume their activities under the Covid-19 regulations. Some of the associations that have been approved are Zimbabwe Motorsport Federation, National Anglers Union of Zimbabwe, National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe, Polo Association of Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe Netball Association, Hockey Association of Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe Aquatic Union, Cycling Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe Cricket and Zimbabwe Football Association. The staggered re-opening of sport has been meant to ensure safety in the sector, with national associations having to apply for clearance before they resume activities. Covid-19 cases have been on the rise in the country and the Warriors’ case is of concern as sport gradually resumes. Apart from the guidelines, issues of discipline at an individual level come into play and each and every one has to act responsibly for the measures put in place to bear fruit. Some of the associations that have been approved such as the Hockey Association of Zimbabwe made a swift move after hearing about the Warriors situation and called off all face-to-face training for the national senior and juniors squads on Wednesday. The squads have been having group training in preparation for the Central-South Africa tournament coming up in February and the Junior World Cup qualifiers in March. The National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe, who are planning to hold a combined seniors and juniors’ camp in preparation for a number of upcoming major competitions, have indicated that they will do everything possible to ensure safety for athletes and staff, describing the development as a wake-up call.