The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter IT’S just a few weeks to go before the Vitality Netball Superleague gets underway in the United Kingdom and Felisitus Kwangwa says although she knows the level of competition is going to be different, she is ready for the challenge. It’s been two months since the Zimbabwean player moved to the United Kingdom where she joined Vitality Netball Superleague club Surrey Storm. The league is expected to get underway early next month. As they continue with their build-up to the 2021 season, Surrey Storm returned to the court on Sunday when they hosted Wasps in a pre-season friendly at Surrey Sports Park. Although she did not feature in Sunday’s game, Kwangwa said it was a good game that gave her an insight of what it is going to be like when the league takes off. “It was a good game. Unfortunately I was watching the game from home. I wasn’t there because of other reasons. I couldn’t make it yesterday (Sunday) but I really enjoyed the game. “For now I have got an idea of what it is going to be like and I know that everyone in the league is good, so you have to fight until the last whistle that’s what I saw. “So it’s quite different from what we see at home once a team is leading you are most likely to get successful at the end of the day as you are likely to continue leading. But unfortunately on this side any minute things can turn the other way round, you can be the losing side. “So the thing is we should start well and also finish well. So that’s what I saw and that’s what I expect when the league starts because all the teams I have been following most of their friendly matches. “And all the teams are quite competitive, which means it’s not going to be easy when we get onto the court and we should fight so that we can claim victory or be the better side at the end of the day,” said Kwangwa. The Gems captain says all has been going well and she is eager for the competition to get underway. “The preparations have been going well and I think I have just adjusted well to the new environment, new team, new everything and I think I am good to go . . .  Initially when I came here I was more than mentally prepared. “I am glad all our training sessions went well and I can’t wait to play the game. The only thing that I have for now is the excitement, I can’t wait to play our first game,” said Kwangwa. The goal defender, who is expected to boost Mikki Austin’s side defensive end, is confident of her teammates and for her the motto is to always give one’s best in every game. “We are going to make it because we are quite a good side, so we are just hoping for the best. We are just hoping to win and I know the girls they do fight. Sometimes you might not win but as long as you have given your best that’s the greatest achievement ever. “But the main goal is to win all games at all cost so we will see what happens when the league starts,” said Kwangwa. Kwangwa’s historic move to join the Vitality Netball Superleague, one of the top netball leagues in the world, has made other local players see the possibilities. And national senior side coach, Lloyd Makunde, believes this may open doors for more local players to move outside the country.