The Herald LONDON. — Jurgen Klopp has paid no attention to the English Premier League football table at the end of 2020. Liverpool ended the year three points clear of Manchester United at the top after missing several good chances in the 0-0 draw with Newcastle on Wednesday night, but the Red Devils do have a game in hand over their rivals. Klopp knows that the current standings count for nothing come the end of the season, but he has insisted that the team will not get too down on themselves following a third draw in five matches. Klopp insisted he was not “overly frustrated” after seeing his Premier League champions held to a goalless draw at Newcastle. The Magpies had goalkeeper Karl Darlow to thank for their point as two slipped from the Reds’ grasp on a night when they created chances, but could not take any of them. “The last thing I’m thinking about is our position in the table at the moment,” Klopp said. “It’s nice but it doesn’t mean anything. We drew now the last two games and are still top of the table in a very difficult season, it just shows how difficult this season is for everybody. “Other teams won, maybe last night, but we are in a good mood, as good as possible. “Like we say, if life gives you lemons, make lemonade. That’s how it is and that’s what we try to think all the time. When I think about football, these are moments when we really enjoy life but all around is obviously not that easy to enjoy. “For all people in the world it’s really difficult. We thought we were through it, we hoped we were through it then winter came, the next wave came and these things. “That’s in my mind but we will keep going, that’s how it is. “The next game, Southampton, Aston Villa, Manchester United. We know about our responsibility, we try to do everything right and want to be ready for the games. “The boys were ready tonight and didn’t get the result we wanted, that’s not the worst thing in life, there are more difficult things in the world at the moment.” Klopp has also praised his side for their efforts throughout the match, but admitted that they missed several good chances to win it. He said: “You might not think I have to tip my hat to my team but I like the performance. It was really good, can we play better football? Yes, but in this game we did more than enough to win it. “I think we had four 100 percent chances. We have won against Newcastle before with fewer chances. Tonight we didn’t but we accept that. I am happy with the things I saw tonight and I can really work with that.” Three days after being pegged back by lowly West Brom to draw at Anfield, Liverpool found Newcastle, and in particular Darlow, in equally stubborn mood as he produced two stunning saves to repel Roberto Firmino headers. However, it was Mohamed Salah who perhaps should have won it for the visitors, uncharacteristically missing the target either side of half-time with only the ‘keeper to beat. Klopp said: “If you keep creating, you will score. I know we will score again, that’s how it is. It’s not a problem in the moment. “We needed to show a reaction from the second half against West Brom because we lost the plot a little bit there, it looked in that second half like we were 1-0 down and not 1-0 up. “Tonight was a very good reaction to that, without getting the result. Everybody knows if we win 1-0 then everybody is over the moon, and we should have won the game at least 1-0. But we didn’t, and we have to accept that.” — The Daily Star.