The Herald BEijing. — Against the backdrop of a pandemic that has taken tolls on global public health and put the world economy in deep recession, the world in 2020 left many living with fear and uncertainty with the situation further worsening due to other emerging challenges. The chaotic situation the world currently faces is similar to that of four years ago when Chinese President Xi Jinping delivered his first landmark speech at the World Economic Forum (WEF), offering Chinese solutions to the global community. “We must carry on the fight,” said President Xi to global leaders on curbing the Covid-19 outbreak at the WEF virtual event of the Davos Agenda on Monday. “Yet we remain convinced that winter cannot stop the arrival of spring and darkness can never shroud the light of dawn.” Themed “A Crucial Year to Rebuild Trust,” the event this year, taking place on January 25-29, aims at rebuilding trust and shaping the policies and partnerships needed in 2021. More than 1 500 business, government and civil society leaders from over 70 countries and regions will set the agenda for 2021. China has said that it hopes President Xi’s speech this year will help reach global consensus, rebuild global trust, and boost global cooperation, and together find solutions for urgent global problems the international community is facing. President Xi said that global cooperation is the best way to defeat the pandemic as well as other global crises. The world should champion multilateralism and build a community with a shared future for mankind, the Chinese president said, noting that no global problem can be solved by any one country alone. “There should be global action, global response and global cooperation,” he said. China has always been a firm defender and active practitioner of multilateralism, joining or building multilateral platforms. It has initiated the Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation and China International Import Expo and signed the world’s largest free trade agreement, the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, in November last year. As the world faces the urgent task of economic recovery in the post-pandemic era, President Xi said that countries should first step up their macroeconomic policy coordination to promote stronger and more inclusive growth of the world economy, using the G20 as the premier forum for global economic governance. China’s economy grew by 2.3 percent in 2020, making it the only major economy to see positive growth with the world economy ravaged by the pandemic. Leading financial agencies, including the International Monetary Fund, expect China to lead the global macro recovery as it is believed that the spending power of Chinese consumers will drive the country’s continued recovery in 2021. In addition, President Xi also called on the world to avoid confrontation using excuses of differences in history, culture or system. Instead, the world should stick to cooperation based on mutual benefits and resolve disagreements through consultation and dialogue. With the world grappling with the pandemic, the economic recoveries of developed nations and developing countries are following divergent trajectories. The developing countries with fewer resources, particularly hit by the pandemic, are imminently in need of help to catch up in the global recovery. In his speech, President Xi called on the world to provide necessary help in terms of more resources and space for the development of developing countries, for the sake of the good of all. “We should recognise that with the growth of developing countries, global prosperity and stability will be put on a more solid footing, and developed countries will stand to benefit from such growth,” he said.  — news.cgtn.