The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter THE National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe president, Tendai Tagara, says their focus is now on track events, following the suspension of cross country activities this year. The national association suspended all cross country events, for this season, after their application to the Sports Commission, for exemption to host the national competition next month, was not granted. Usually, cross country events are held at the beginning of the season to give athletes, mainly middle and long distance runners, the platform to assess their state of preparedness for different competitions and races. A number of provincial, and national cross country events, were scheduled between this month and next month. The national event was set to take place on February 20 in Kadoma. Those that were scheduled for this month had already been affected by the current suspension of all sporting activities. “All cross country events have been suspended, by a directive from the Sports Commission, until further notice,’’ said Tagara. “We had applied for exemption to host the national cross country but last week they said we cannot host, so we just have to comply.’’ The NAAZ president said it’s a blow for athletes, in particular long distance runners. “It’s an endurance event and it helps marathon runners, 10 000m and 5 000m runners because it’s good for endurance. “It means their preparations have been affected,” said Tagara. The development also comes after the Local Organising Committee of the World Athletics Cross Country Championships recently pushed back the event to next year. The world event was supposed to take place on March 20 in Bathurst, Australia, but is now expected on February 19, 2022. Tagara said following the recent events, more focus will be put on track events. “We forego cross country events and focus on track events. The national cross country was coming soon after the lockdown. “We also have to wait for the African Confederation decision, what they will say? “But, I don’t see cross country taking place, so, our focus is on track events for this year and we hope it will open, so that we have some competitions,” said Tagara. Meanwhile, Munyaradzi Jari, who is based in Kenya as he prepares for the Olympics qualifiers, is on Sunday expected to take part in the Discovery cross country event in Eldoret. He has indicated he will be extending his stay in Kenya, where he has been training since last October, after the postponement the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon that was set for next month. The organisers are now expecting to hold the race in April. “I am doing cross country here in Kenya on Sunday, just to see where I am with my training, and also to work on my speed,” said Jari. The camp in Kenya was facilitated by the national association, together with the Zimbabwe Olympic Committee. South Africa-based Rutendo Nyahora, Fortunate Chidzivo, Ngonidzashe Ncube, Isaac Mpofu and Olivia Chitate are among those the national association are pinning their hopes on for the Games. For sprinters, the national association have indicated that considering the current situation in the country, they were relying on those outside the country. Ngoni Makusha, who has been to South Africa for training, is expected to return for a longer camp next month.