The Herald Celebrating Terrence Mapurisana Information, education and entertainment are the equal cornerstones of all radio and television content, according to award-winning broadcaster and journalist Terrence Mapurisana. And, even with the significant advance of digital communications and social media, radio and television broadcasting remains the major force that it has always been, the veteran communicator said recently. Mapurisana was looking back on a quarter of a century in communications, with print journalism, broadcasting and public relations all under his belt. “My career takes me back to the days of the famed Parade magazine, when I was editor and writer for this and for a series of popular trade magazines within the Thomson Publications stable, 1996 to 1998,” he said. “I was later a columnist for Zimpapers’ Scribe’s Scroll Arts Section (The Herald) and for The Sunday Mail Magazine, writing Jazz Corner and other entertainment columns.” He also had a spell in public relations, focused on writing for media and house journals. “In 2002 I moved into broadcast media, joining ZBC as an arts editor before being promoted to arts correspondent,” he said. “I later became assistant news editor and, in 2019, I took up a new role as a deputy news editor for the news and current affairs department. In May last year I was promoted to the exciting post of station manager of Classic 263 radio, a position I still hold.” Mapurisana has a Bachelor of Arts degree in Media Studies, a National Diploma in Journalism, and a Diploma in Public Relations, the latter from the highly respected Zimbabwe Institute of Public Relations programme. He also holds several media certificates and diplomas. Although broadcasting is very much in “him,” he had always enjoyed writing and in the past had significant writing input into household-name publications in Zimbabwe like Look and Listen, Mahogany, the Edgars magazine and many others. Accolades have come his way, among them Best Arts Journalist (electronic media) and Best Journalist (electronic media) in the National Journalism and Media Awards, as well as several National Arts Merit Awards. Community involvement is part of his life and he sits on the Board of the Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services. “I got into broadcasting after being an avid radio listener since I was a young boy. I listened a lot to the old Radio 1 and Radio 3 stations, being inspired by the likes of John “The Boss” Matinde, the late Peter “the Radio Driver” Johns, Eunice Goto, Musi Khumalo, the late Tsitsi Mawarire, Caleb “Mr CT” Thodhlana, Fungai Marange, the late Hilton Mambo and the late Andrew T Kanyemba, among others,” he said. So, in his early days, he gained broadcast experience on the former Radio 1 and Radio 3 stations, presenting weekend programmes, even before his print journalism era. “I was auditioned soon after leaving school and I kicked off with my first Sunday show on Radio 3 as a guest DJ in 1993. That was the beginning of my broadcasting career and for me the rest is history. Radio has always been my first love,” he said. He is a keen fan of international TV and radio. “I find many DStv channels inspiring, and my favourite programming comes from Mzansi Magic and news channels like CNN, BBC, Al Jazeera and eNews,” said Mapurisana. “Some of the DStv audio bouquet channels that I can’t be without include Hot91.1FM, on which I get to listen to Zimbabwe’s Simon Parkinson, former Radio 3 DJ, and Bop radio, for which Zimbabwean George Munetsi is now at the helm. As a reggae fan and a producer-presenter of reggae content for Classic263, I am in love with the Reggae channel (DMX 825) and the Old School Adult Contemporary channel (DMX751).” Relationship-building with DStv has been part of his ZBC experience and he has been able to benefit from what are called MultiChoice Content Showcase trips across Africa. “These include a MultiChoice Content Showcase in Sandton, South Africa, where I had the opportunity to meet film producers, directors and film makers of Rockville’s The Queen,” said Mapurisana. “These included producer and actors Shona Ferguson and Connie Ferguson, whom I had the opportunity to interview.Shona went on to record an audio for my Classic263 radio shows, which was a big milestone for my radio shows.” An unforgettable Content Showcase was the one that took place in Mauritius, where he met several renowned actors and actresses from Nigeria, such as Ramsey Noah and Genevieve Nnaji. Channels were showcasing their content, including ZeeWorld, BBC World and others. “The event gave us the opportunity to mix and mingle with members of the group Mavins and their leader Don Jazzy, whom we saw live on stage. Many people will remember them for the song Dorobucci,” he said. “I also shared notes regarding Zimbabwe’s entertainment industry with Nigeria’s best entertainment director and Big Brother Africa MC, IK Osakioduwa.” These showcase visits have been instrumental in widening horizons and creating contacts for Terrence Mapurisana. “The event held in South Africa in November 2014 saw us being welcomed by Nkateko Mabaso, director of local entertainment channels, and gave us the opportunity to visit the Isibaya studio in Soweto, the Zabalaza studio and Vuzu Entertainment studio, were I talked and interacted with actors and film producers. “Others I interacted with included Baby Cele, executive producer of Zabalaza Lebone Maema, Rhythm City actor Matli Mohapeloa, Vuzu presenter Cyprian Ndlovu. “We saw some memorable shows, such as Kenny G live in concert at the Dome in Gauteng. That show was great for me, as I host my jazz programme called Sunday Jazz on Classic263 each Sunday from 11am to 12 noon.” Mapurisana had the opportunity to experiencing life in the Big Brother House, going in with journalists from various African countries to take part in the housemates elimination process. “What an experience it was,” he recalls. “Equally exciting was checking up on Idols SA, when I had the opportunity to meet and interact with one of South Africa’s best-known faces, presenter and Idols judge Randal Abrahams. Mapurisana said broadcasting was one of the greatest educational tools which had ever been placed at the disposal of humankind, doubly effective as an instantaneous, universal means of communication. “For example with radio, wherever they are all people with access to a radio set can tune in to listen to news, sports broadcasts, comedy shows, dramas, live music and political addresses,” he said. “Radio and TV also help people escape the cares and worries of everyday life and help make the world become a much smaller place in the minds of many people as they see that we are all, in various ways, interconnected.” He said that the influence of radio and TV was massive, giving a vital link to information and ideas, with a power to influence opinions in a way that had never been seen before. “When broadcasting came along, people could find out what is happening in the world very quickly after it happened, certainly much faster than waiting for the newspapers to print a story. And I am thrilled to be part of that communications process.” — MultiChoiceZimbabwe