The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor HE was discovered and nurtured by some of the finest football coaches in Zimbabwe. He passed through the hands of coaches such as the late legendary Peter “Thunderboots” Nyama, Stanley Marunza (late), Steve “Biko” Phiri, Philemon Phiri (late) and the late John Nyamasoka. And, after hanging up his boots in 1999, many people thought former linkman-cum-striker Alex “Chola” Chasweka will also try his hand into coaching. But, Chasweka, who is now based in Swansea, Wales, has decided to take a different route. He has just embarked on a career as a player agent. Speaking to The Herald, from his base yesterday, Chasweka (53) said he has just completed a course as a trainee football agent as well as a trainee football scout with Wales-based Next Level Sports Group. Next Level Sports Group are a young and dynamic sporting and consulting agency, who specialise in sourcing new talent throughout the world. They also look for aspiring football coaches, scouts or football intermediaries with moderate experience to join their team in a range of roles. He said he can also scout for players for different teams in Wales and the whole of UK under the Next Level Sports Group. “I go out and identify young, talented players and they (NLSG) will negotiate their contracts once they are attached to any professional team. ‘’In fact, as a trainee in this sense means I’m working under Next Level Sports Group. “(At the moment) I can’t just bring in players from anywhere around the world as an independent agent or scout but I’ve to do it through them. ‘’But, I’m very excited about this latest development because I can now be able to go out there and identify talented players who I can recommend to different teams here through Next Level Sports Group. “And, if all goes well my first port of call will obviously be my home country Zimbabwe. ‘’I know there’s a lot of untapped talent in Zimbabwe and they can easily follow the footsteps of Marvelous Nakamba who was largely unknown there (in Zimbabwe) as a young player and look where he’s now. ‘’He is turning himself into a world-class player at Aston Villa. “I would also like to spread my network to other Southern African countries such as Zambia and Malawi where there are also a number of good, young players who I think can make the grade with top clubs here in Wales and in the English Premiership. “My heart bleeds when I see a number of talented young players from these countries being taken to South Africa for the so-called greener pastures but they end up being wasted or tossed aside there without reaching their full potential. ‘’This must change and I would like to come in now as one of the scouts or agents for these players from Zimbabwe, Zambia and Malawi and take them to Europe,” Chasweka said. Sports, or players’ agents, generally receive between four and 10% of the athlete’s playing contract, and 10 to 20% of the athlete’s endorsement contract, although these figures vary. And, Chasweka said at the moment Next Level Sports Group gets a bigger percentage of all his deals. But, this will change after he becomes an independent agent after a year or so. “I’m happy to work under them for a year and then we will see what happens after that. ‘’This organisation is also based in London and Brussels; and this means I can also scout for players for teams in England and across Europe which I think is a very exciting venture.” Chasweka relocated to the UK in the early 2000s after having hung up his boots in 1999 following an illustrious career which took him to clubs such as Blackwood Hodge, ZRP Tomlinson, Black Aces, Mhangura, Blue Swallows and Rufaro Rovers. At ZRP Tomlinson he played under the late shrewd coach Marunza and rubbed shoulders with the likes of Linus “Ninja” Mushonga (late), Claudius Zviripayi, Boniface “Achimwene” Kabwe,  George “ZUPCO” Mangwandi and Shepherd Chirambadare who all went on to make a name for themselves with different clubs in the Premiership. After spending two seasons at ZRP Tomlinson, Chasweka, the younger brother of former Black Aces and Chapungu United midfielder, Moses “Gwejegweje” Chasweka, was spotted by the legendary Nyama who took him to Black Aces in the early 1990s where he played alongside the Mugeyi twins, Wilfred and William, Shadreck and Magarika Dzvairo, Charles “Star Black” Kaseke, Shingi Nyamadzawo, Emmanuel “Shumba” Nyahuma, Percy “Master” Mwase and Stanley “Zero” Mashezha. He also had playing stints at Mhangura, Rufaro Rovers and at Air Force of Zimbabwe side Blue Swallows. Chasweka also captained the Zimbabwe five-a-side team at the 1996 Africa Futsal Championships in Cairo, Egypt. The tournament was a qualifier for the FIFA Futsal World Cup that was staged in Spain in that same year. Zimbabwe came third, to walk away with a bronze medal at the African tournament, although they missed qualification to the global showpiece.