The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Zimbabwean-born Rugby World Cup winner Tendai “Beast” Mtawarira has expressed interest in joining the World Wrestling Entertainment Universe, during an Instagram live chat with superstar Kofi Kingston. Kofi was born in Ghana and is one of just a handful of African stars to compete in WWE and the first to win one of the promotions primary belts. “There he is, the Beast!” is how Kofi started the chat with Mtawarira, pointing out that he was excited to get the opportunity to speak to another African star based in America and whose journey to success has been similar to his. The two stars had their chat to celebrate each other’s sporting achievements, a year since Mtawarira joined US Major League Rugby side, Old Glory DC. Beast spoke of his interest in WWE after Kofi acknowledged that some of his fellow superstars actually started in rugby. The WWE superstar asked if Beast would one day consider stepping into the ring, because his name and body type would be perfect in the WWE Universe. The rugby player responded that he has been a fan since he was young and it would be an amazing experience, given the fact that he looks up to WWE legends like Hulk Hogan and The Rock. “To actually get the opportunity to come to the WWE, even on a once-off appearance, I would be so excited. Let’s see what happens man, maybe you can open some doors!” Beast responded. Springboks captain, Siya Kolisi questioned his former teammate’s chances of WWE success by commenting: “Kofi will fly kick your a**.” Kofi then advised Beast on how he could potentially prepare for a WWE appearance, vowing to do what he can to make it possible. Perhaps Kofi could offer him Big E’s spot in the new day. The discussion also included similarities in their individual journeys, as they both left their home countries at a young age to find success. Besides being a Rugby World Champion, Mtawarira is a Rugby Championship winner (2019) and Currie Cup winner (2008, 2010 and 2013) with the Sharks. He has 117 caps with the Springboks, making him the third most-capped Springbok of all time behind Victor Matfield and Bryan Habana and the most-capped frontrow forward. “It was always my dream to win a World Cup, to be a world champion because throughout my journey I’ve worked hard for 12 years to achieve the goal and it happened,” Mtawarira said. Kofi became the first African-born WWE Champion after winning the title at Wrestlemania 35 in 2019. “Being able to take the WWE Championship back to Ghana for me was probably one of the best experiences of my life, you know. Seeing Ghanaian children, letting them hold the WWE Championship belt, having them see the name Kofi on it, such a popular name in Ghana,” said Kofi. — The Southafrican.com