The Herald Tawanda Musarurwa Diversified mining firm, Premier African Minerals says the Zulu Lithium Project can be restarted “soon” as a result of improvement in Zimbabwe’s country risk profile as well as an increase in global lithium prices. Despite positive assays on the project, the Zulu Lithium Project and Tantalium in Matabeleland South Province had stalled due to a number of factors. However, Premier chief executive officer George Roach said the stars were beginning to align for the project. In its last significant update on the Zulu Lithium and Tantalium Project, which came in 2019, Premier announced that it was seeking an Exclusive Prospecting Order (EPO) from the Zimbabwean authorities. “What’s happening with the lithium price at the moment, allied with the fact that we have had an application with the Government of Zimbabwe for a couple of years for an exclusive prospecting order dramatically expanding the area of the Zulu Lithium deposit, with hopefully that being granted soon, and some reduction in the country’s risk, as well as improvement in the lithium prices, that project is beginning to look really exciting,” he said. “And I think that it is something that we are going to unimpair soon.” Premier African Minerals is a multi-commodity mining and natural resource development company focused on Southern Africa with its RHA Tungsten and Zulu Lithium projects in Zimbabwe. The company has a diverse portfolio of projects, which include tungsten, rare earth elements, lithium and tantalum in Zimbabwe, encompassing brownfield projects with near-term production potential to grass-roots exploration. The Zulu Lithium and Tantalum Project is an advanced stage lithium development project. It covers about 3,5km² and is located 80km north east of Bulawayo. In June 2017, Premier announced a maiden mineral inferred resource estimate on Zulu of 20,1 million tonnes grading 1,06 percent Li2O. And in November 2017, the company announced a scoping study demonstrating, a robust project with a viable process route.