The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter TECHNICAL advisor for the team to represent the country at the World Para Athletics Grand Prix in Dubai, Alexander Mkandla, says they will use the next few days day to polish up their preparations. They are set to leave on February 5. Zimbabwe’s focus is on athletics where they believe they stand a good chance to get qualification for the Tokyo 2020 Games. The competition in Dubai is serving as a qualifier for the Games. The travelling delegation started arriving in Harare on Thursday and some were expected to be in by yesterday. Mkandla, who is working together with coach Midlred Baye, said they have been monitoring the athletes from their respective provinces. But, the camp in Harare will allow them some time to assess the athletes one on one. “We have been communicating with coaches, who were in charge of the athletes, they were training in their provinces. “So, we have been in touch with the local coaches to monitor how they have been progressing because we had given them training programmes. “They have been sending videos from their training sessions, so we want to assess their fitness and just to see if they are still within the range in terms of the their previous times. “We also want to ensure that they are mentally prepared but we will mostly focus on their times. “We will have some sessions at the National Sports Stadium. We are working together with the coach,” said Mkandla. The technical team were also looking at finalising the events each athlete will take part in, depending on their strength, to increase their chances of qualification. Speaking to The Herald yesterday, Zimbabwe’s chef de mission for the Paralympics, Ignatius Vambe, said once the athletes are tested and cleared, they will begin their training sessions under strict Covid-19 regulations. “Once they have been cleared of Covid, practice sessions will resume following strict Covid-19 protocols as per World Health Organisation and Ministry of Health regulations. “Sessions will be conducted both at the hotel and the National Sports Stadium,” Vambe said. The team is staying at Cresta Lodge. The chef de mission will leave on February 2 for a meeting on February 4, ahead of competition, while the team is scheduled to leave for Dubai on February 5. The first three days will be for classification and the actual competition starts on February 10. “I have to attend a preparatory meeting on the 4th and ensure all accreditation is in place. “Then the team arrives on the 6th but everything is in order. “So, the opening ceremony is on the 6th, then classification for the next three days. “It also gives them time to acclimatise and our first event is likely to be on the 10th of February,” Vambe said. Zimbabwe were initially considering other sporting disciplines such as powerlifting. But, with qualifying events limited and some already closed for qualification, Vambe said they have settled for athletics, which has previously produced results at major competitions.