The Herald ROME. — Reeling after midweek defeats, both Milan clubs look to get back on track in Italian Serie A football this weekend to hold off their rivals as champions Juventus and Roma close the gap on the leaders. AC Milan remain one point ahead of second-placed Inter despite Juventus ending their 27-match unbeaten league run with Inter’s eight-match winning streak ending at Sampdoria. Stefano Pioli’s Milan have a chance to consolidate their lead at home against 17th-placed Torino today, a day before Inter face a tricky trip to Roma, who are three points behind their opponents in third. Both Milan clubs have injury worries. Star striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic remains sidelined for a ninth consecutive league game with midfielder Hakan Calhanoglu joining the growing Milan injury list with an ankle problem. Matteo Gabbia, Ismael Bennacer and Alexis Saelemaekers are also out injured with midfielder Rade Krunic and forward Ante Rebic sidelined with coronavirus. “We need to stay calm despite the delicate situation we’re experiencing between injuries and Covid,” said Milan director Paolo Maldini. Antonio Conte’s Inter are hopeful of forward Romelu Lukaku’s return to full fitness after a leg muscle problem limited him to half an hour’s play against Sampdoria, during which defender Danilo D’Ambrosio picked up knee ligament damage. A fourth consecutive league win for Roma would allow the capital side to move level on points with Inter. Juventus are fourth, seven points off top spot, and tomorrow also face a tough tie at home against Sassuolo, one point behind the champions in fifth. “Benevento are a dangerous team who score goals, but we’re approaching it in the right way,” warned Atalanta coach Gian Piero Gasperini. Eighth-placed Lazio are away to Parma, the latter hoping for a change in fortunes with the return of coach Roberto D’Aversa in place of Fabio Liverani, dismissed after the club dropped into the relegation zone. Fiorentina, in 14th, host Cagliari, just behind them, with forward Franck Ribery doubtful after twisting his right knee in their midweek loss to Lazio, although the Tuscany club ruled out ligament damage. Italian Serie A Fixtures Today: Benevento v Atalanta (4pm); Genoa v Bologna (7pm); Milan v Torino (9:45pm). Tomorrow: Roma v Internazionale (1:30pm); Udinese v Napoli (4pm); Parma v Lazio (4pm); H ellas Verona v Crotone (4pm); Fiorentina v Cagliari (7pm); Juventus v Sassuolo (9:45pm). Monday: Spezia v Sampdoria (9:45pm). — AFP.