The Herald Indian farmers’ unions and associations last Thursday rejected the federal government’s offer to put on hold the implementation of three farm laws by up to one-and-a-half years. The farmers leaders stuck to their original demand of a complete withdrawal of the three laws. At the conclusion of the 10th round of talks between the two sides last Wednesday, the government had offered to the farmers unions/associations to put on hold the implementation of the three farm laws for a period of up to one-and-a-half years, as talks between the two sides continued to find a solution. The farmers leaders had responded by saying that they would discuss the “offer” among themselves  before reverting to the federal government. The next round of talks between the farmers leaders and the federal government was scheduled last Friday. Rejecting the offer, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (Joint Farmers Front), a joint forum of farmer organisations that is spearheading the ongoing protest, said that the agitated farmers want the three farm laws to be completely repealed. The protesting farmers are also demanding fixation of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for their agricultural produce. “In a full general body meeting of Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the proposal put forth by the Government was rejected. A full repeal of three laws and enacting legislation for remunerative Minimum Support Price (MSP) for all farmers were reiterated as the pending demands of the movement,” said a farmers leader. Thousands of farmers from several states, particularly northern, like Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh have been camping at the inter-state borders around Delhi for nearly two months, demanding withdrawal of the three laws which they claim are detrimental to their interests. After being denied entry by the Delhi Police, the agitated farmers have set up temporary tents for themselves, and can be seen cooking for themselves in makeshift community kitchens at various inter-state borders around Delhi. — Xinhua.