The Herald JOHANNESBURG — Red-Lined Motorsport Adventures is partnering with former World Rally Championship driver and Dakar Rookie of the Year, Conrad Rautenbach of Zimbabwe, for the 2021 South African Cross Country Championship. “We are delighted to confirm that Conrad Rautenbach is partnering with Red-Lined for the 2021 South African Cross Country Series,” team boss Terence Marsh confirmed in Johannesburg yesterday. A veteran of 56 World Rally Championship rallies, Zimbabwean national Rautenbach made his Junior World Rally Championship debut at the 2004 Monte Carlo and was a regular JWRC podium finisher over the following seasons. He also won the 2007 FIA African Rally Championship, before stepping up for two seasons of top class WRC, where he racked up several top-10 finishes in 2008 and 2009. Rautenbach then won the 2010 South African Rally Championship and added a second African title in 2011. He later drove with Toyota in the South African Cross Country series, winning the 2016 Gold 400. Rautenbach delivered one of the best Dakar debut performances in recent years with ninth overall and won the Rookie of the Year award in 2017. He returned to Dakar in 2020 and came home fourth in the prototype PH Zephyr Light Car. Now Rautenbach returns to the wheel of a Red-Lined VK56 for the opening round of the South African Cross Country Series while also working on the development of the all-new Red-Lined Revo, which he will step up to in anger, once the team is satisfied with his race readiness later in the season. “I am beyond excited to be partnering with the Red-Lined family and I cannot wait to see where this adventure takes us,” Rautenbach admitted. “I had a very good feeling with the car straight away when I tested it last week — best of all, it was great to drive a proper race car again. “It was also special to meet all the team — I have raced with some of the finest in the world over the years and what I have seen so far, I am partnering with a team that’s right up there with the best. They are a dedicated group of professionals who know exactly what we need to do. “Best of all is that there is such a cool family atmosphere at Red-Lined. “I have raced a few events in South African Cross Country, so I know how competitive it is, as the recent Dakar has just shown. “So we know exactly what we are up against and I have a good idea of what to expect. This is also a fresh adventure, I have a new co-driver in Riaan Greyling and we are racing in a great team. “I really cannot wait to get behind the wheel at the first race in Dullstroom. “Let’s see what we can do!” “We are looking forward to taking everything to the next level and working with Conrad,” Red-Lined team boss Marsh concluded. “This year is all about us evolving both as a team and a business as we develop our new car and we cannot wait for the adventure and the results that will follow. “We tested with Conrad last week and he was most impressive for someone who hadn’t driven for a year. “For us it is crucial that Conrad is a safe pair of hands with a wealth of experience, which we will use to develop every aspect of our team and cars. “Bring it on!” *Red-Lined Motorsport Adventures competes with premium strategic partners, the Penta Motor Group, BFGoodrich, Motul, Dragon Energy, Jonnesway Tools, Expand a Sign and Wheel Collision. — Motorsportmedia.co.za