The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Kaizer Chiefs marksman Khama Billiat is set to miss the next two months of the South African Premier Soccer League action due to injury, while Leonardo Castro is also sidelined. The Zimbabwean international and former Mamelodi Sundowns player was forced off the field injured during Amakhosi’s 2-0 league defeat to Maritzburg United last weekend, a couple of minutes after half-time. Billiat is set to be sidelined for around two months after suffering a broken leg in their defeat to Maritzburg United over the weekend, Chiefs have confirmed. The Zimbabwean international was substituted in the 48th minute during their 2-0 DStv Premiership loss at FNB Stadium on Saturday. It’s now transpired that it’s the worst-case scenario for Billiat, who has cracked a bone in his leg. “Injury Update. Khama Billiat has a cracked leg bone and will be out for 2 months. We wish him a speedy recovery,” read a post on the Chiefs Twitter account. This is bad news for Amakhosi, who have been struggling domestically with some poor results in the league, which see them sitting in 14th place on the standings, just a point ahead of bottom of the table Black Leopards. This means Billiat will miss the Soweto Derby against Orlando Pirates on January 30. Billiat has only managed one goal in 16 matches in all competitions for Amakhosi this season, but was looking in good form against Maritzburg United and remains Chiefs’ go-to man to make things happen in attack. And coach Gavin Hunt, who has been hampered by the club’s transfer ban, has not only lost Billiat, but fellow marksman Leonardo Castro as well. Castro scored last week for Chiefs in a Champions League match in Angola against Primeiro de Augusto and had also been in decent form. The Colombian is not expected to be out for long, but will not be available for selection for Amakhosi’s match this afternoon at the Kings Park Stadium in Durban. With both Billiat and Castro out, Hunt may have little choice but to start Samir Nurkovic up front against Usuthu, despite the Serbian having only had a few minutes of action off the bench last week following his return from a long-term injury. Other options are Bernard Parker and Lazarous Kambole, but both seem devoid of confidence in front of the net and are struggling badly in terms of goal-scoring form. The match today is a game which the Soweto side, currently just a point above the drop zone, badly need to win. In more positive news, Chiefs have confirmed that Reeve Frosler has returned to training following injury. — Goal.com