The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter FC Platinum coach, Norman Mapeza, says he is keen to balance his side for the upcoming CAF Confederation Cup play-off tie against ASC Jaraaf of Senegal. This follows the club’s reunion with experienced players Donald Ngoma and former Soccer Star Rodwell Chinyengetere. The platinum miners, who are battling to try and qualify to the group stages of the continent’s second-tier competition, have also signed ex-CAPS United midfielder, Innocent Mucheneka, and versatile former Dynamos defender, Blessing Moyo. Mapeza feels the return of Ngoma will be key in strengthening their strikeforce, which looked lightweight, after the departure of attacking midfielder, Perfect Chikwende, for Tanzania two weeks ago. “As for Ngoma, I think we don’t have enough strikers in the team so, I think, the coming in of Ngoma will add another dimension into our attack,” said Mapeza. “Blessing is coming in to provide some depth in our defence. “He is someone who can play as a defender and can also play in midfield. So, we needed someone like him. “As we move on, we still need to look for one central defender, maybe a left-footed one, to add depth again into our defence. “We are still looking around, it’s unfortunate there hasn’t been any football being played so it’s not easy to scout for players.’’ Ngoma played for FC Platinum between 2012 and 2015, scoring 23 goals in 65 appearances. The 31-year-old left to join Tanzania’s Young Africans in 2015 before moving to Azam FC in 2017. In his first year with Young Africans, he won the championship, scoring 21 goals for the side in his two-year spell. Ngoma featured in 42 matches for Azam, in all competitions, notching up 20 goals in the process, with four assists. However, he has been clubless since June last year when he was released by Azam. Chinyengetere, who played a starring role when the Zvishavane side won their first two league championships back-to-back in 2017 and 2018, is also back in the fold. The 32-year old returns from South Africa following a stint with Baroka. Defender Moyo is also returning from South Africa where he had stints with DStv Premiership Maritzburg United and National First Division side, Real Kings. “FC Platinum announces the Club’s reunion with Donald Ngoma who left the team amicably for Young Africans before joining Azam FC where he was until 2020,’’ the club said in a statement. “The striker comes with experience to boost the frontline. Blessing Moyo also joins the Club to add to the defence of the team. The young defender last played for Real Kings NFD South Africa.’’ The team resumed training this week. They have been grounded since January 6 when they were controversially knocked out of the Champions League by Tanzanian side Simba SC. The side finally got the clearance from the Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation in line with the national Covid-19 lockdown measures and have wasted no time. “First of all I would like to say thank you so much to Sports Commission, the Ministry of Sports and the Ministry of Health for giving us the exemption to train for the Confederation Cup game against ASC Jaraaf,” said Mapeza. “We are all happy, we started training yesterday and so far so good. The guys haven’t lost much in terms of their fitness levels. “We gave them a week off, after we came back from Tanzania, as you are aware we had some guys who had been left behind in Tanzania. “We were supposed to start training last week on January 18 but we couldn’t because of the clearance issue. But, we are all happy that we have got the clearance. “So, these coming three weeks, it will be all work. We are trying to maximise on what we are going to work on, that is physical, technical and tactical.’’ He said his men have to quickly forget what happened to them in Tanzania. “Our message to the boys has been the same,’’ said Mapeza. “With what happened in Tanzania, I don’t think we really need to think much about that. “I think we all know what happened but it’s just a game of football in Africa. “Our next focus now is on the Confed Cup. I think it will be good if we can go through to the group stages of the Confed Cup. ‘’I think that will be the most important thing.” The first leg has been set for February 14 at the National Sports Stadium with the return leg pencilled in for the following week at the Stade Demba Diop in Dakar.