The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — SuperSport United will come up to a landmark 1000 league goals the next time they get the ball into the opposition’s net, becoming only the fourth club to reach four figures in the South African Premiership. Kaitano Tembo’s men are on the last triple number — 999 — after their recent 2-0 DStv Premiership victory away at Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila last Sunday. In reaching a chiliad of goals, they will now join Mamelodi Sundowns (1124), Orlando Pirates (1041) and Kaizer Chiefs (1035) in breaking the four-digit milestone. Having played 760 league matches to date, it means Matsatsantsa have averaged 1,3 goals per game in the PSL era, which goes back to the day they played their opener away at Witbank Aces on August 11, 1996.  They drew that game 0-0. Though M-Net had bought the franchise of Pretoria City in 1994 while they were still in the first division, and before ownership was then transferred to SuperSport International, they only changed their name in 1997 and thus played their maiden PSL season under their old name. The first ever PSL era goal by United was scored by Ronald ‘Chicco’ Lawrence, 14 minutes into their home match against Cape Town Spurs on Saturday, August 17, 1996. Matsatsantsa eventually won that match 2-0 with Marc Batchelor adding the second. SuperSport next host high-flying Swallows FC in their next league today. Meanwhile, Kaizer Chiefs forward Samir Nurkovic has discussed this weekend’s Soweto Derby and made it clear that they are only interested in victory over Orlando Pirates. Nurkovic will be contesting his fourth Soweto Derby since arriving at Chiefs at the start of last season, after missing out on the MTN8 semi-final double-header last year. The Serbian marksman, who has one goal and two assists in six DStv Premiership encounters this season, has yet to score against The Buccaneers but explains why merely featuring in such a mammoth clash is a dream come true. “Playing in big derbies like the Soweto Derby is every player’s dream. I have had the privilege to play three derbies last season and I am happy to be part of this derby again,” Nurkovic told Chiefs’ website. “Before I arrived in South Africa and came to Chiefs, I learnt about the Soweto derby — the fact that the players have the opportunity to play in front of 90 000 supporters made me really look forward to being part of such an occasion. “My experience in the derby has been unbelievable thus far. Playing in front of 90 000 spectators is a dream come true for every player. It has exceeded all my expectations. “It is unfortunate that this derby will have no supporters at the stadium, but I am sure they will be supporting us from home. “It is full focus for Chiefs as we get ready for the clash with Pirates. A big team like Kaizer Chiefs must only be interested in victories, that’s why we are going into this game, just like every other game, with full focus.” — KickOff.com.