The Herald Nyore Madzianike Senior Court Reporter A police officer stationed at ZRP Goromonzi appeared in court on allegations of demanding a US$100 bribe from a motorist they had arrested while undertaking an unsanctioned deployment in Harare’s city centre. Blessing Fashitudu (29) was also allegedly found in possession of a stamped Covid-19 exemption letter bearing a forged signature of another police officer employed in the Intelligence Unit at Goromonzi Police Station. Fashitudu appeared at the Harare Magistrates’ Court charged with extortion and possession of articles for criminal use. He was not asked to plead to the charges when he appeared before magistrate Ms Tendai Muchini, who remanded him to February 25, on $5000 bail. Circumstances leading to his arrest are that on January 18, he and his workmate, who is still at large deployed themselves in the capital’s city centre. They then allegedly stopped Knowledge Makosa, who was driving a Toyota Wish, at the corner of Jason Moyo and Harare Street. Fashitudu and his colleague were wearing police uniforms, according to the State. It is said that Fashitudu and his friend told Makosa, who was with his niece Joice Chikanya, that he was under arrest without disclosing the nature of the offence. Fashitudu and his friend allegedly ordered Makosa to drive to Harare Central Police Station. Along the way, the two policemen started demanding US$100 from Makosa and his niece to buy their freedom. The court heard that Makosa told them that he had no money resulting in his niece volunteering to give the two police officers US$17, she wanted to buy medicine for a relative who was admitted at West End Hospital. It was said that Fashitudu and his accomplice turned down the US$17 offer, as it was too little. Upon getting closer to Harare Central Police Station, Fashitudu asked Chikanya to give him the US$17 they had initially turned down. He was handed the money and disembarked from the car. The transaction fell in the eyes of Constable King Ziwa from the Police Intelligence Unit PPU section, who asked Makosa and his niece of what had transpired. Constable Ziwa then tracked the two police officers and managed to apprehend Fashitudu. He took him to where Makosa was parked and later drove to Harare Central Police Station where Fashitudu was found with the exemption letter.