The Herald Mukudzei Chingwere Herald Reporter Pioneer beneficiaries of President Mnangagwa’s personal scholarship programme have promised to market the country in Zambia, as well as excel in their academic pursuits to motivate their sponsor to incorporate more aspiring students. The 10 beneficiaries drawn from a pool of financially constrained but talented students across the country’s ten provinces, are set to start their tertiary studies in Zambia. The bursary programme, known as the Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa University of Zambia Scholarship Programme (ED-UNZA) — will benefit both Zimbabwean and Zambian students. Nomsa Ncube from Guruve, one the beneficiaries said her dream was always of becoming a lawyer. She did her brief by attaining 14 points at Advanced Level but that could not guarantee her a university place since she was orphaned at one. She thanked her aunt who stood by her up to A Level but could not afford university education and expressed utmost gratitude to President Mnangagwa for helping her achieve her dream. “I have always wanted to be a lawyer but my aunt could not afford to send me to university but now am thankful to President Emmerson Mnangagwa for this opportunity. “I have been idle for a year, watching other students go to school whilst I am at home, applying for scholarships. “My parents passed on when I was young, when I was a year old. So I wasn’t able to pay for all those expenses that were needed for university. “My aunt had helped me to pass through those levels like O and A Level and I am really grateful. This is a new journey and I want to make the most of it,” she said. Rachel Zvomuya thanked the President and said they would reciprocate by being good ambassadors of the country. “We are really honoured to be the ten recipients of the scholarship for 2021, and we want to take this opportunity to thank the President for the financial assistance he is providing. “We are very happy and deeply appreciative of his support, which will help us to reach our full potential. We assure the President to be good ambassadors for the country,” she said. The other students said they were duty bound to be exemplary to give the sponsor the impetus to continue funding the initiative so that others behind them could also benefit. Some have touching backgrounds and were not comfortable going on record but thanked the President for his generosity to help them pursue their academic careers. They said since they would be representing the country as beneficiaries of the President’s benevolence, they would do their best to market the country with their academic excellence and deeds. Some of the beneficiaries are Tafadzwa Lovejoy Toriro, Natasha Gwatidzo, Clyde Kasungasunge, Aaron Simbarashe Mapara, Tafara Mapurisa, Simbarashe Muranduri, Nyasha Victoria Mushonga and Hilda Pangeti. Chairman of the board of trustees of the ED-UNZA scholarship programme Mr Hebert Nkala briefly explained the educational fund and had a parting note for the students. “This trust is a private initiative by HE, President Mnangagwa, the intention is that it outlives his Presidency and himself. “Do not embarrass HE or his corporate sponsors. You will be recalled if you fail or you are indisciplined. There thousands who are dying to get this opportunity. “We were inundated by applications and you are the lucky ones to be the pioneer students. Be conscious of your newly found freedom, be role models for your families, communities and country,” said Mr Nkala to the students.