The Herald KAMPALA. — Ugandans voted yesterday in a presidential election tainted by widespread violence that some fear could escalate as security forces tried to stop supporters of leading opposition challenger Bobi Wine from monitoring polling stations. Long lines of voters snaked into the distance in the capital, Kampala. “This is a miracle,” mechanic Steven Kaderere said. “This shows me that Ugandans this time are determined to vote for the leader they want. I have never seen this before.” But delays were seen in the delivery of polling materials in some places, including where Wine voted. After he arrived to the cheers of a crowd and cast his ballot, he made the sign of the cross, then raised his fist and smiled. “Everybody was scared, they thought I would not cast my vote. Here I am coming from the polling station,” Wine told local broadcaster NTV Uganda. “I want to assure Ugandans that we can and indeed will win. Whether or not (the electoral commission chief) declares that, that is his business.” Results are expected within 48 hours of polls closing at 4 pm. More than 17 million people were registered voters in this East African country of 45 million people. A candidate must win more than 50% to avoid a runoff vote. Long-time President Yoweri Museveni who has been in power since 1986, is seeking a sixth term against a strong challenge from Wine, a popular young singer-turned-opposition lawmaker. Nine other challengers are trying to unseat Museveni. After voting, the president was asked if he would accept the election’s outcome and said “of course” but quickly added, “if there are no mistakes.” Wine, whose real name is Kyagulanyi Ssentamu, has seen many associates jailed or go into hiding as security forces crack down on opposition supporters they fear could mount a street uprising leading to regime change. Wine insists he is running a non-violent campaign. Wine, of the National Unity Platform party, has said he does not believe the election is free and fair. He has urged supporters to linger near polling stations to protect their votes. But the electoral commission, which the opposition sees as weak, urged voters to return home after casting ballots. Internet access was cut on Wednesday night. The government decided to shut down access to social media in retaliation over Facebook’s removal of Museveni-linked Ugandan accounts. – Reuters.