The Herald KARACHI – Pakistan beat South Africa by seven wickets on the fourth afternoon of an absorbing first test of shifting fortunes at the National Stadium here yesterday. Needing just 88 to win after dismissing South Africa for 245 in their second innings shortly before lunch, Pakistan overcame the loss of two wickets in the first over after the break as well as the late dismissal of their captain, Babar Azam (30), trapped leg before for the second time in the match by Keshav Maharaj, to ultimately cruise to victory midway through the second session. Paceman Anrich Nortje gave the tourists a jolt by bowling Abid Ali with his first delivery after the break before having fellow opener Imran Butt caught behind wafting at a wide delivery outside his off-stump. But Azhar Ali (31*) and Azam settled in promptly and the possibility of a shock result quickly dissipated. It was entirely appropriate that Pakistan’s player of the match, Fawad Azam, had the honour of scoring the winnings runs, driving Maharaj off the back foot for four to seal victory. It was Alam’s epic 109 in 245 balls in the first innings that effectively won the match for his team, underscoring Pakistan’s superior batting in the match. When the left-hander with the unconventional stance came in on Tuesday evening, his team were gazing into the abyss on 27 for four after South Africa had batted poorly – giving away soft wickets including two unnecessary run-outs – for their first innings total of 220. Alam’s gritty knock subsequently paved the way for Pakistan to recover to 378 and a handsome first innings lead of 158 and they never really looked back after that. “The credit goes to the players,” said captain Babar. “Our bowling was outstanding on a slow pitch and the way Yasir and Nauman bowled, it helped us get wickets. “When we lost four early wickets Fawad and Azhar put on a good partnership as they showed their experience. It gave us a boost and a very crucial lead.” Babar’s Proteas counterpart, De Kock, who endured a miserable 50th test of his career, rued South Africa’s first innings collapse. “I think our first innings cost us the game,” said De Kock. “That was a big reason for our loss.” De Kock dismissed suggestions that South Africa took too long to adjust to the conditions. “We practised enough here but I think we were a bit soft in the first innings,” he said. Earlier, South Africa suffered a poor start after resuming on their overnight total of 187 for four wickets in their second innings — a slim overall lead of 29. With the first ball of the day, Pakistan paceman Hasan Ali knocked back the off-stump of nightwatchman Maharaj with a delivery that kept a little low. Worse was to follow in the fourth over when De Kock – who had a poor match — played casually forward to legspinner Yasir Shah and was smartly snapped up at backward short-leg by Abid Ali who took his third good catch in that position in the innings. There followed some encouraging resistance from Temba Bavuma and George Linde who added 42 for the seventh wicket without much fuss before Linde (11) drove loosely at Nauman Ali and edged to backward short-leg where Butt took a nice low catch. That was effectively the end of the innings with Kagiso Rabada and Nortje playing poor shots to be respectively bowled through the gate and caught at point. Bavuma, who had struck three fours in his 93-ball innings, then attempted to sweep a straight ball from Nauman Ali and was trapped lbw. The diminutive right-hander had looked as good as anyone in the Proteas’ batting line-up, showing good composure under intense pressure, but he simply ran out of partners. That left South Africa all out for 245, with Nauman Ali becoming the 12th Pakistan bowler to take a five-wicket haul on debut. The 34-year-old left-arm spinner bowled with superb control to finish with the excellent figures of 25.3-8-35-5. He was well backed up by Shah who took 4-79 and seven wickets in the match. For South Africa, their second innings featured some good performances, notably the century partnership between Aiden Markram and Rassie van der Dussen as well as Bavuma’s late show, but the batting overall looked vulnerable. Pakistan will take great heart from this win, not least because they outfielded and out-caught South Africa. As for the Proteas, who suffered their eighth successive defeat on the Asian subcontinent, they will have to pick themselves up, particularly with the bat, as they head to Rawalpindi for the second and final test starting next Thursday. – MWP.