The Herald Golden Sibanda THE food and agribusiness virtual seminar between United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Zimbabwe kicks off this morning amid huge interest from participants. Organisers confirmed that registrations have already topped 1 000 compared to the target of 500 they had initially set themselves. The webinar was organised by the Dubai Chamber International Office Mozambique in partnership with DEAT Capital (Zimbabwe), DP World, and Dubai Exports. Deat Capital managing director Nicky Moyo, said the webinar sought to bring deeper understanding of the food and agribusiness opportunities between UAE and Zimbabwe. Mr Moyo said the Zimbabwe-UAE Food and Agribusiness Forum was going ahead today, adding it is a great networking opportunity for those seeking new markets, partnerships as well as business opportunities in Zimbabwe and the UAE. “This is exciting as we have a record 1100 participants who have confirmed. Of those of who have confirmed we have 80 percent from across the world, from Turkey, Middle East, Tunisia, Algeria and they bring so much capabilities to the table to support food and agribusiness in Zimbabwe,” Mr Moyo said excitedly. The UAE is an attractive market for the sale of agricultural produce, since it is an import-based market. About 80 percent of the agricultural produce consumed in the Emirates is imported from all over the world, with a total value of over $10 billion (in 2018). In addition, the UAE is a global trade and transit centre for a variety of goods destined for the Middle East. The webinar will feature two distinctive panels, one that will highlight Dubai as an international food hub, and another will unpack Zimbabwe’s food and agribusiness market. Agriculture provides employment and income for 60-70 percent of Zimbabwe’s population, supplies 60 percent of the raw materials required by the industrial sector and contributes 40 percent of total export earnings. The sector is also of strategic importance to the economy as agriculture contributes approximately 17 percent to Zimbabwe’s gross domestic product (GDP). The keynote address will be delivered by Minister of Lands, Agriculture, Water and Rural Resettlement, Dr Anxious Jongwe Masuka and discussions will feature a range of topics on food and agribusiness. These include food and agribusiness trends in UAE, UAE as a food trade hub, setting up in UAE and Jafza for agriculture and food traders, Zimbabwe agriculture and food policies, trade finance trends and opportunities, logistics support services in agriculture trade and public-private partnerships (PPP). Further, discussions will revolve around opportunities for Investing in Zimbabwe agriculture and Africa Continental Free Trade Area Opportunities for UAE companies. The forum is also part of the build-up to the global mega exhibition, the Dubai Expo 2020 which runs from the 1st of October this year to the 31st of March 2022. Notably, the UAE is also the second-largest economy in the Gulf region after Saudi Arabia, with a gross domestic product (GDP) of over US$350 billion. UAE ambassador to Zimbabwe Mahash Saeed Salem Mahash Al Hameli has already committed to higher levels of cooperation through supporting the Zimbabwean economy. He is on record saying UAE will be investing in trade opportunities in the country and working with the Government to empower citizens and local communities. In 2017, Zimbabwe registered a trade surplus of $307,6 million with the UAE and has recently been inviting UAE companies to invest in sectors such as mining, information and communications technology (ICT), agriculture, tourism, education, renewable energy technologies, infrastructure development and healthcare.