The Herald Sithandazile Tshuma Midlands State University Is on-campus dating a result of peer pressure or a choice? Students engage in on-campus relationships mainly because of peer pressure. Girls mostly, do this as a passport to easy survival. Having a boyfriend on campus ensures that almost 60percent of one’s meals will be catered for by the boyfriend and who wouldn’t want that kind of a bonus? On-campus dating also gives both parties a cool kind of view among peers – the sunset meetings, kissing in the dark and matching outfits. Students find this kind of experience “very cool and essential”. However, these on-campus relationships tend to cost students a lot, especially when the relationship is not going well and one sees that person every day. Seeing one’s ex-boyfriend or ex-girlfriend with another person looking all lovey-dovey after breaking up brings up questions like; what if he or she was already cheating on one, and is the new person they’re seeing much cooler than one, tend to visit one’s mind in rapid succession. Most students end up resorting to alcohol and substance abuse in order to cope with their self-pity. These break-ups lead to depression and stress which affect a student’s performance in his or her studies. On-campus relationships cost students a lot of self-esteem, fighting hard to be in a coolest relationship after ending one, and so the pattern goes on and on. In the majority of the times, these parties don’t have any greater appreciation of the person they’re dating especially when off- campus and the only background information they have on the person would be from campus friends and what the partner would have shared, meaning if by chance the girl falls pregnant it would be nearly impossible to track down the fellow. Most students view these relationships as a hobby they engage in order to pass time and make their stay a bit exciting while they have committed girlfriends and boyfriends back at home. A few hopefuls see future partners and wedding bells. Whatever view one gives, at the end of the day, it is fine as long as one is not peer-pressured into it.  Collen Takaza University of Zimbabwe The arrival of the year 2021 brings with it hope and vitality to soldier on in the face of the frustration of living amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. It is the newness of the year that I am gratified to embrace. The most invigorating part of the New Year is when I had to sit down in my study cubicle to write down my 2021 resolutions. New Year’s resolutions are decisions or goals that you set for yourself at the beginning of each year, typically focussed on bettering yourself in some way. A resolution can also be defined as a promise to oneself to get something done, ideally along with a plan to make it happen. These goals can be kept private or can be shared with friends and loved ones. Jenni Young McGill says: “Keep it private until you know it is permanent”. Resolutions are critical for a solid foundation when beginning a new chapter in life. The answer to the question, “What is a resolution?” is not problematic. The challenging part is to expertly decide what resolutions you should focus on and obligate yourself to follow through with any promises you make to yourself. When I called a few friends they indicated that they had also taken time to put on paper what they wished to achieve in the year 2021. A few others, however, were quick to inform me not to waste time by writing down things that never come to pass. To say I was shocked to hear this is an understatement. Luckily I did not stop because of this discouragement. What inspired me most were the few achievements that I had registered in 2020. As I set down on the eve of the New Year to plan 2021, I drew great joy from the newspaper publications that I had enjoyed throughout the year. I drew great excitement from the class presentations at university some of which we did online which shaped my academic prowess. What exhilarated me were the course work marks that I snatched from two of the several courses I undertook during the year 2020. I managed to reach my intended targets. For me, the New Year presents the space to manoeuvre in a turbulent socio-economic environment. To register success one needs to be tenacious. I had barely written meaningful resolutions when the thunderous sound of fireworks and deafening hooting of cars tore through the walls of my study cubicle. I abruptly dashed out and went straight into the street to celebrate the coming of a new year with others. At the house next to ours, Sungura music played non-stop. Across the road, the tuck-shop remained open into the early hours of the first day of 2021.  The streets in our ghetto neighbourhood were jam-packed with people. Unaccompanied children played in the street as if it were during the day. Men and women stood by the entrances to their gates watching the young who were partying the night away. Boys and girls could be seen giggling as they stood in pairs and small groups along the street. Everything had to be done at home or near one’s house as night clubs and bars were closed due to the lockdown. Outside in the streets of my neighbourhood, the message was lucid: We had entered in 2021. Happy New Year shouts were all over. I did not have money for drinks so I did not spend much of my time alfresco. Once inside the house, I started working on 2021 resolutions. There are many examples of resolutions one can make as they start a fresh year. These include career advancement resolutions, health and wellness, financial resolutions, personal relationships, time management resolutions and social responsibility resolutions. In my case, I resolved to pass examinations that are soon approaching in this month of January. I also set targets as to the grades I wish to attain in each course. As a budding media scholar, I resolved that funds permitting I should not vacillate to further my studies in this exciting field. The urge to further my studies in communication and media studies came from my brief flirtation with such terms as media democracy, hegemony, and manufacture of consent, gate-keeping, and semiotics among several other thought-provoking words. For my health and wellness resolution, I decided to join the local gym and to make sure I do exercises for the at least 30 minutes thrice a week and to also get enough sleep. On the morning of the first day of January 2021, I may not have finished penning my resolutions but the joy of knowing that God allowed me into 2021 cannot just leave me. John Chamboko Midlands State University Unity is the fuel that stimulates initiatives in place for national healing and a catalyst for resolving many simmering issues. Respect is the product of unity which is a clear manifestation of tolerance for cultural and traditional beliefs of ethnic groups bound by the same goal of harmonising interests through dialogue. This must be encouraged in a democratic society for peaceful co- existence for national development. The December 22, 1987 Unity Accord established a durable foundation for peace and harmony which translates to a stable socio-economic and political environment for development. This became a vehicle for addressing differences that were divisive and contradictory, and therefore hampering national development. A country in unity is a democratic society destined to achieve a common goal towards sustainable development. Where there is unity there is peace and harmony. This allows people to value working together for the benefit of a country. Unity as a vehicle for national development initiates growth and there is greater accomplishment by working together to achieve a common goal that benefits society. There are numerous benefits of unity. People must be enlightened about the benefits of unity. Many social evils and unjust practices have been fought and eradicated. Each year in December Zimbabwe celebrates National Unity Day, the legacy bequeathed to us by the late two founding nationalists that points to the uniform dream of a nation towards socio-economic and political development.