The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter DELTA Force Boxing Academy’s Revai Madondo and her trainer Clyde Musonda will leave the country today ahead of their non-title bout against Stumai Muki on Friday in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. Madondo will take on Tanzanian boxer Muki in one of the several supporting bouts for the WBF International super-featherweight match between Ibrahim Class and Dennis Mwale. Going by Rumble in Dar, Madondo, who turned professional in 2017, got a boost after some local business people came on board to help her with her preparations. Before her departure, the female boxer got financial support from Alexia Dalmeida of Dalexx Logistics who believes the pugilist will make it and go on to take on Argentinian boxer. “This is the first huddle and I have belief that she will overcome the obstacle. She is a promising fighter and as a way of giving back to the community, we decided to support such endeavours. “We are looking forward to support boxing, especially the girl child who we believe does not usually get equal opportunities,” said Dalmeida. Another sponsor, who made the journey possible, Zuchie Edwards of StanZee Borehole Drilling, said they are behind trainer Musonda’s project as he has helped take a lot of people from the streets through training them boxing and this is something they saw worth supporting. “We are expecting her to do well in the next match and I believe the little we gave her will go a long way in motivating her. We are in difficult times but the support we give these athletes will go a long way and I hope some corporates will take clue and also support the girl child,” said Edwards. Despite a constrained training programme due to the lockdown restrictions in Zimbabwe, Madondo’s trainer Musonda said they are going for a win, come Friday. “I think after I returned home we worked on a lot of things as she was training alone all along. “I came during the past few days and I am happy with the progress she has made ever since her last match on Boxing Day last year. “She is ready and I hope we are going to pull a positive result which will be a morale booster ahead of our next challenge,” added Musonda.