The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Fashion 263 On Wednesday, history was made in the United States where the first black woman Kamala Harris was sworn in as the first vice president. This happened obviously at the inauguration ceremony of newly elected President Joe Biden. The world watched the colourful ceremony on social media and on television, but what caught the attention of many was the fashion statement at the event. It is a fact that the fashion industry went ablaze when guests appeared at the event, dressed to kill. All eyes were on Vice President Kamala Harris, the new First Lady of the United States of America Dr Jill Biden and of course Michelle Obama. Though the inauguration looked very different to normal because of the Covid-19 restrictions and guideline, the fashion choices were on another level and as a fashion buff it is too difficult to ignore the story. For her inauguration outfit, Dr Biden chose to wear a custom-made blue dress and matching coat from emerging designer Alexandra O’Neill of female-led brand Markarian, as said online sites. The coat featured deep blue velvet fabric along the deep collar and the cuffs, while Swarovski crystals and pearls embellished the dress’ neckline and the coat. For a woman of her age, I can say she nailed it, but she almost looked like she was from the royal family. According to Elite Daily, Dr Biden’s dress has a special meaning: “The light blue colour was chosen to signify “trust, confidence, and stability.” Vice President Harris wore a bold violet purple dress coat by a young Black designer Christopher John Rogers, who has already dressed famous women, including Lady Gaga and Beyoncé. Vogue said the colour purple might have been chosen to symbolise unity — as it’s the colour you get from mixing blue with red — as unity was the pillar of the new President’s inaugural speech, calling for national unity. It is believed that President Biden, First Lady Dr Jill Biden, Vice President Harris and second gentleman Douglas Emhoff all chose to wear the work of American designers or labels, including Ralph Lauren, Christopher John Rogers and Markarian. Michelle Obama could not be left out as she stole the limelight with her purple-like attire matching her coat. Talking about Michelle’s colour suit, some said it was purple, while others think it was burgundy or ox-blood jumpsuit. Wait a minute! Was that a jumpsuit or it is actually a two-piece attire? Town and Country reported that she arrived in a burgundy coat and jumpsuit cinched with a gold belt by Black designer Sergio Hudson and a black face mask. Hudson is not new when it comes to dressing Michelle as he is the one who did her book design looks. He even dressed Beyonce and Rihanna at the Essence festival. But others are saying that the monochromatic look incorporated a flowing overcoat paired with a form-fitting turtleneck and wide-leg pants. Some designers who spoke with Insider’s Sophia Mitrokostas pointed to Obama’s flowing wide-cut pants as a fashion trend to watch out in 2021. She finished it off with a gold belt to cinch the waist, black gloves, and a black face mask. My friend and fashion blogger United Kingdom based Zimbabwean Craig Twist who in the fashion world is popularly known as Mistar Rocca confirmed that “It’s the coat season…” as he created a debate on social media. “Those who know me already know that I am a staunch fan of Melania Trump’s fashion taste, but on Wednesday the coats ruled and gave a classy feel. The good thing is the colour choice and coat design, I think the fashion designers have played a pivotal role in promoting their brand,” he said. One thing I like about Michelle is that she chose a symbolic outfit and broke the internet with her.Like they say, besides our skin tone, the first thing a person sees when they look at a black woman is often their hair. At first I didn’t like her hairstyle because for such an event, she was not supposed to look like she was going to Beyonce’s show, but she pulled it through. For an outfit to be complete, it needs a perfect hairstyle. I had a debate with my boss over who was the best dressed at the inauguration. My 10 stars go to Michelle. Back home, the issue of shirt dress has gone crazy among many women. Fashion blogger Hollywood Lee said it is a must have for every lady because they are transitional. “A shirt dress is something we can’t argue or talk about now because it is a must have for every lady just like jewellery,” she said. “I like shirt dresses because they are perfectly transitional from summer to winter and you can still rock them. “You can choose to layer them over leather trousers or under a boyfriend blazer for a laid back, casual look or put the famous Michelle Obama belt. I can say that they are key players in wardrobe.”