The Herald Nyore Madzianike Senior Court Reporter HARARE Town Clerk Hosiah Chisango was on Tuesday granted $50 000 bail and barred from getting 100 metres near any council offices, except health institutions, until his criminal abuse of office charge is finalised. Chisango, who is facing allegations of seeking to take direct control of the council’s security division and appointing a chief security officer without authority, appeared before Harare magistrate, Mr Ngoni Nduna, who remanded him to February 25. He was represented by lawyers Mr Gwinyai Mharapara and Ms Gayton Vhiriri. Chisango was ordered to report to Rhodesville Police Station every Wednesday. In his ruling, Mr Nduna noted that Chisango can only interfere with witnesses once given access to Town House or council offices. “The manifestation of interference comes from his office which he assumes as the town clerk,” he said. “Without access to his office, accused will not have powers to interfere. In other words, he will be like a fish, without water there will be no life. “Clearly, if the accused is banished from the Town House or office, he will not have access to the said witnesses.” The State led by Messrs Michael Reza and Lancelot Mutsokoti, alleges that on December 24 last year, Chisango allegedly unlawfully directed the council’s public safety division that is digging into land sales, to start reporting to him rather than to the chamber secretary, as had been directed by the council’s established procedures. Council had allegedly not approved the switch. Further allegations are that Chisango designed a new reporting structure favourable to himself, as he wanted to assume direct control of the division, which was investigating dubious land deals by some council executives. Chisango is also alleged to have further convened a meeting with the public safety division management and gave a verbal directive to reinforce the written orders. On January 13 this year, council chief superintendent and head of investigations, Tarisai Chiendambuya, was allegedly served with a letter of suspension through Geoffrey Manyere, who had been appointed acting chief security officer by Chisango. By appointing Chiendambuya, Chisango allegedly acted inconsistent with his duties and responsibilities.