The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter WARRIORS defender Carlos Mavhurume has kept national football teams’ general manager Wellington Mpandare’s mobile number since his days at Yadah. That was six years ago. The utility man, plucked by CAPS United from Herentals early last year, doesn’t often receive calls from the former Gunners manager though. But on December 8 last year, he received one. “I was at home in Chitungwiza on that day and I was preparing to go to the shops with my family,” said Mavhurume. “My phone rang and upon realising it was national teams manager Mpandare (Wellington), I was a bit confused. I just picked the phone and his cool voice greeted me.” Mavhurume had just impressed Warriors coach Zdravko Logarusic in a practice match between the Warriors and the Green Machine hours earlier. Mpandare would break the news to the 25-year-old, for long overlooked despite his composure at the heart of defence. “He told me to immediately report for training camp as coach Loga wanted to have further assessment on me. I was very excited. I knew my chance had come and I knew exactly what l needed to do. “Upon reporting for camp, I also realised that my teammates Ronald Chitiyo and fellow defenders Tafadzwa Jaravani as well as Munyaradzi Diro-Nyenye had been called up.” Diro-Nyenye eventually fell by the wayside but the man nicknamed “Avatar” from his days at Chitungwiza-based Second Division side Chisa would win Loga’s heart. “I have so many defenders in this provisional squad which I am working with. I have been impressed by all of them but there are some of those things which distinguish others from the rest. “I am going to drop at least two defenders. I am not going to say much but yes, Carlos (Mavhurume) is a steady defender,” said Loga of Mavhurume. “His technique is up there and his attacking prowess is top-notch. It’s only that these players have not been playing competitive football for several months but they have the potential. “All the defenders are good and I actually hate dropping any one of them but I am going to do so because it has to be done.” Until the friendly tie pitting Makepekepe and the Warriors eventually saw the light of the day, Mavhurume was content sitting at home. He had been routinely overlooked by Warriors coaches for that defensive role which he does roundly well. In his first top-flight season at Herentals in 2018, Mavhurume played 31 games for The Students, partnering Blessing Maunganidze at central defence. Herentals finished fifth on the log and they had the second-best defence in the Premiership after champions FC Platinum at the end of that season. Mavhurume was the standout man from that defensive line of goalkeeper Frank Kuchineyi, Wilmore Chimbetu, Maunganidze and Brighton Majarira for he played more games than any of those. But somehow, he was also overlooked in the Soccer Stars of the Year selection. He has everything under his feet now though. The versatile defender, who can play as a centre back, full-back or defensive link, will this evening line up in Warriors colours in the CHAN finals opener against hosts Cameroon. The match kicks-off at 6pm local time. He last lined up in national team colours when he captained the Under-17 team some years back. But, he has the chance to prove he is worth his salt and all the hype around him. “I don’t know if I am going to start but whatever role the coach is going to give me will be suffice. If I start, I will take the opportunity with both hands and play my heart out. “If I start on the bench, we will have to support those in the field. At the end of the day, what is important is for Zimbabwe to do well in this opening match.” Mavhurume said Zimbabwe need to beat Cameroon if they are to stand a real chance of progressing to the next round. “This is the match which determines our future in the tournament. We all know that Cameroon are the hosts and they are a powerhouse in continental football. But, we all know what we are here for. We know exactly what we need to do. This is a game of paramount importance and we have to fight like Warriors.” Coach Loga is spoilt for choice in defence. He is likely to go with his preferred 3-5-2 formation, a structure which fits Mavhurume the most and which could accommodate Ian Nekati, Qadr Amini, Patson Jaure as well as Peter Muduwa all at once.