The Herald Special Correspondent EVER since the advent of a national top-flight football league in 1962, the local game has been endowed with vast talent in the form of central defenders. But which is the central defence pairing that can be adjudged to have been the finest and most resilient since Independence in 1980? It certainly proved to be an arduous task for me as I scratched my head countless times in eventually coming up with the following 10 best pairings that I “reluctantly” ranked: While the big Mkandawire (late) was unshakeable and superior in the air, the shorter Dick was as hard as nails on the ground and theirs was a tenacious pairing. I recall their coach then, Luke “Vahombe” Masomere, boasting that even a world-class forward like Brazil’s and Real Madrid’s Ronaldo would have a tough time trying to negotiate his way past the formidable duo. Chigwenje, a lanky skipper who used his tall frame and long legs to perfection, was ably assisted by a mean, “card-playing” partner – Dealer —  who took no prisoners to protect his ‘keeper. Although Chikauro and Chikunha (late) rarely hit the headlines because of the presence of their more popular team-mates like Stanford “Stix” Mutizwa, Stanley “Sinyo” Ndunduma, Japhet “Short Cat” M’parutsa and Maronga “The Bomber” Nyangela, the central defensive pair were the real deal as Chauya Chipembere swept past their “Big Three” rivals – CAPS United, Dynamos and Highlanders in that imperious season to land the top domestic prize. Chikauro and Chikunha always excelled in the team’s heart of defence with some resolute and fortified outings. Magariro was a cool and intelligent ball winner while Zhokinyi’s strength and durability provided that backbone for success. And that partnership continued to flourish in the next season proving all the critics who had described their success as a fluke, dead wrong. Their success has been paved by their two (Moyo and Bello), rock-solid performances in central defence. Although Moyo later departed for South Africa in 2018, his influence at the heart of defence has had a lasting influence and Bello has instilled astute resolution and command for his new partners. It’s usually midfielders or forwards who are said to drive many a team but this duo was a close exception to that rule with Kapenya’s timely interceptions to ward off any impending danger and Ndlovu’s sweeping clearances and initiative moves the main characteristics of the Bosso siege. Kapenya is one of only a few defenders to win the Soccer Star of the Year title, joining an elite class of Ephert Lungu (Rio Tinto, 1983); James Takavada (Ziscosteel, 1984); Dennis Dauda (ZPC Kariba, 2014) and Hardlife Zvirekwi (CAPS United, 2016). One was big, tall and muscular (Chawanda) while the other was short and lean but their combination was explosive. It will always remain a mystery to me why no national selectors ever considered calling up “Roadblock” into the senior fold to see if his continued partnership with “Rocky” would last the distance. While the short and stocky Zambian stopper Chilembe provided the clinical and intricate halting of opposition forwards, the strongly built Katumba (late) fortified any loopholes luckily dug by any foe. Chilembe’s former countryman and midfielder, the late Derby Mankinka remains the most skilful and brilliant all-round foreigner ever to grace our local fields but Chilembe is definitely the best defender ever seen locally. Apart from ex-Ziscosteel’s and ex-Black Rhinos’ defenders Takavada and Ernest Mutano respectively, “the Cool Ruler” remains, for me, as the most intelligent defender I ever witnessed. They were both gangling, strong and totally uncompromising. Only a few . . . Yes, a few forwards can claim to have had the better of these two brothers on the field of play. This partnership, which started two years before Independence when “Scania” joined his elder brother at DeMbare, was only halted in 1983 after “Mhofu” had suffered a career-ending injury. It’s no wonder both Sunday and Misheck had turns to be captains at club and national levels because of their leadership qualities during their impressive tenures. The DeMbare of that era thrived on a rock-solid foundation that took no prisoners and that message was boldly scripted by the Chidzambwa brothers. It’s also no wonder that when they both later became national team coaches at different times, their sides were built on formidable rearguard action that allowed little to penetrate. Phew . . . You will agree that was a difficult Top 10 to compile wouldn’t you?