The Herald LONDON. — Phil Foden fired Manchester City into third place in the English Premier League on Wednesday night as Pep Guardiola’s men saw off a feisty challenge from Brighton to win 1-0. Much of the recent talk has been about a potential duel between leaders Manchester United and champions Liverpool but Pep Guardiola’s men are now right in the mix. And Foden believes Manchester City are now back to their best after a hard-fought win over Brighton fired them back into the top four. The 20-year-old, who progressed through the youth academy at the Etihad, netted the only goal of the game with a fine finish inside the near post — and wasted no time in laying down the gauntlet for City’s title rivals. However, Foden is also remaining firmly grounded and admitted Pep Guardiola’s team will continue their challenge one game at a time. He told BT Sport: “We feel like we’re back to our best now. We can take confidence from the last few results now. “Today I still feel like we could have done better, and we dug deep to win.” City were able to grind out their seventh consecutive victory across all competitions after downing struggling Brighton, and have managed to firmly haul their tilt on the summit back on track. Foden’s strike, which came just moments before the half-time whistle, proved the difference with Raheem Sterling blazing a stoppage-time penalty over the crossbar. Foden’s effort was his eighth of the season across all competitions, currently making him City’s top scorer. “I’m very proud of the team for how we kept going until the final whistle,” Foden added. “Overall it’s a great result. They made it difficult for us to break them down. “To get the goal before half time was really important. It ended up being the winning goal so I’m delighted. “I don’t score too many right-footers, so when they come along I enjoy it.” City return to action against Crystal Palace on Sunday, and Foden has insisted his team-mates’ sights are firmly fixed on picking up another three points. He said: “We know we have a game in hand, and we have to think about our next opponent now and not look too far ahead.” The 2018 and 2019 champions started the season sluggishly but have hit the accelerator in recent weeks and are now just one point behind Liverpool with a game in hand. City played without a recognised striker against Graham Potter’s Brighton but despite not being at their best in soggy Manchester, eventually had just enough to beat the well-organised visitors. The home side dominated possession in the early stages without creating much of note and Brighton carried an intermittent threat on the break. City had a golden chance to take an early lead when the impressive Kevin De Bruyne was put through by Ilkay Gundogan but goalkeeper Robert Sanchez blocked the Belgian’s shot right-footed shot from close range. Brighton’s Leandro Trossard had a chance to test the returning Ederson in the City goal but he bent his shot wide. As City found their rhythm, Joel Veltman reacted well to clear before Foden could poke the ball in the net and De Bruyne had another chance five minutes from half-time after a swift break but his powerful shot was well saved. City’s pressure finally told in the 44th minute. Foden received the ball from De Bruyne on the left of the attack. The 20-year-old wriggled past two Brighton defenders and stroked the ball inside the near post from the edge of the box. It was the England international’s eighth goal of the season — he is City’s top-scorer in all competitions this campaign. No player has more assists in all competitions than De Bruyne, with 14. The goal meant Brighton had to change their game plan for the second half. Riyad Mahrez should have doubled the lead in the 58th minute, sending his left-footed shot wide after being put through. Moments later City again went close. Gundogan forced a good save from Sanchez and the rebound fell to Bernardo Silva, who turned and thumped a shot against the woodwork. — AFP.