The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter Organisers for the Worship Experience 2.0, which was scheduled for today at the Harare International Conference Centre, has been postponed due to a surge in Covid-19 infections. The show, which was supposed to feature South African gospel legend Bishop Benjamin Dube as the headline act, will be held at a date to be announced. Dube was expected to share the stage with local artistes Minister Michael Mahendere, Janet Manyowa, Zimpraise Choir, Takesure Zamar, Baba na Amai Charamba and Gospel DJ Fungai, among others. In a statement, the event organisers Kayse Connect, apologised for the inconvenience but said that was the best way in the face rising Covid-19 cases. “Following the recent surge in Covid-19 cases and after internal consultations with various Kayse Connect stakeholders, we have established that we will have to postpone the Worship Experience 2.0, scheduled to be hosted on New Year’s Day. Our 2021 edition line-up included Bishop Benjamin Dube from South Africa and multiple local gospel music giants. “We will continue to monitor the situation on the ground. We apologise for any inconvenience caused. Please continue staying safe from Covid-19,” reads the statement in part. Event spokesperson Elton Kurima confirmed the development. “We decided to shelve the show because of what is currently happening; the situation on the ground about Covid-19,” he said. “The show was expected to attract 100 guests as per Covid-19 regulations. For those who would have failed to make it on the 100 list, we had introduced a ‘pay-per-view’ slot which was US$2. We pray that the situation will be normal and we continue having the show as planned,” he said. He said they had already partnered a local media company, Gateway Stream, who were scheduled to livestream the event. Kurima said comedian Prosper Ngomashi commonly known as Comic Pastor, and radio personality Yvonne Karichero, have been listed as the hosts. “Both hosts will serve for the live and pay-per-view. Only those who have paid will enjoy the show, there will be no additions. “We are still looking at the possibility recording a live DVD. We do not want a lot of personnel as we had limited numbers,” he said.