The Herald MANCHESTER. — John Stones “deserves the best”, according to Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola. Stones scored twice — his first English Premier League football goals for City — and put in an accomplished display at the back in a 4-0 demolition of Crystal Palace on Sunday night. Alongside Ruben Dias, Stones has been in imperious form, and from the 10 games the pair have started together in all competitions, City have claimed nine wins and one draw, conceding just one goal. Indeed, with Stones and Dias proving their worth, Aymeric Laporte, a star performer in recent seasons, has been limited to four league appearances this term. Injuries and losses of form have marred Stones’ time at City, and the former Everton centre-back had lost his place in the England squad after making just 16 top-flight appearances last season. However, despite talk of a move away, Stones stayed put to turn his form around, much to the delight of Guardiola, whose side are up to second, two points behind Manchester United. “If it’s one guy who deserves the best, it’s John. He struggled a lot but he is a fantastic human being, his parents must be so proud,” Guardiola told a news conference. “He had personal problems and injuries in the past but at the moment he is settled well. Confidence is everything and he is confident for himself. “Managers cannot give confidence but he started playing alongside Ruben and they play really well.” Stones scored from both of his attempts. While his opener was a fine header from Kevin De Bruyne’s exquisite cross, his second – which came after Ilkay Gundogan had doubled City’s lead in delightful fashion – was a predatory finish after Dias’ header was saved. The former Barnsley defender also topped City’s distribution metrics, completing 112 out of 117 attempted passes (a success rate of 95.7 per cent) — 54 of these came in Palace’s half. With 120 touches, Stones tallied up more than any other player, four ahead of Fernandinho, while he won one of his two aerial duels. In this regard, his partnership with Dias proved particularly fruitful, with the Portugal international winning three of four aerial battles. Stones did not have to make a single tackle, with Dias again doing the dirty work in that respect, though he did gain possession six times, behind only Fernandinho (seven) and Palace’s Andros Townsend (12). Sharing the limelight with Stones were midfielders De Bruyne and Gundogan, who flanked Fernandinho in a 4-3-3. De Bruyne created a game-high three chances, including the assist for Stones’ opener — the Belgium playmaker’s 100th in all competitions for City, with the 29-year-old creating 32 more goals than any other Premier League player since making his debut for the club in 2015. “What can I say? The managers can help many things but one thing is the talent up front,” Guardiola said of De Bruyne. “Managers are incredibly fortunate or lucky to be in charge with this kind of player because it makes your life easier.” Not to be outdone, Gundogan was equally as sharp. The Germany international boasted the highest pass completion rate in Palace’s half (96.6 per cent) of any City player with at least 10 such passes, and scored a sensational goal to put the hosts 2-0 up, with Raheem Sterling’s first career goal directly from a free-kick rounding things off late on after Stones had doubled his tally. Asked if Gundogan was playing the best football of his City career, Guardiola said: “Ilkay, the year when we won the second title when we won 14 games in a row [2018-19]. — AFP.