The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter She is inexplicably calm, composed and collected for her age. You won’t believe this is debut single. At the tender age of 14, Lael Tavonga has a unique vocal stylisation; sweet, melodious but purposeful so much that it makes seasoned musicians green with envy. Titled ‘A Girl is a Woman’, the song is an fusion of Afro Pop, and Rhythm and Blues. It speaks to the power of the girl child and should be an inspiration to her peers and young women. The song was produced by Brian ‘’Vion’’ Masendeke and Waynebeats and was penned by the singer herself. In an interview with the teen sensation, she said had started communicating and explaining herself through music. She said the song is about motivating young girls to be proud of themselves and stand for their rights. “I just wanted to express how a girl child should also be listened to. I feel as a girl child I have a lot to share, but there is never that platform because I’m always told I’m a child and I don’t know anything. “Also generally the society tends to focus more on the boys and educating them yet as girls we also need to be looked at as people that can also be role models, rulers or presidents one day. I believe we have a lot to offer as we just need to be given the opportunity and platform. So, this was my way of just expressing myself and how I feel,” she said. Lael says she has a strong passion for music. “My passion for music started at a tender age of four when my parents saw me singing during a pre-school Christmas play. Since then, they have encouraged and supported me. “I want to pursue it professionally and I am happy I got the opportunity to sing at my local church, Life and Liberty Ministries. The church has been very supportive and I owe my success to God,” she said. The St Johns Emerald Hill student said was discovered and nurtured by Richard Kohola, an anchor at StarFm. “My role models are American Tasha Cobbs and Tammy Moyo because they are women and are great vocalists,” she said. She added that for now she was focusing on singles but might release an album in the near future. “Right now, I am focusing on my single and balancing school work. I will work on the album in the near future. So far, I have lined up radio and television interviews including social media platform promotions to market my single. “I see myself in five years on the international stage and having released at least two albums,” she said. She said was hoping to do some collaborations with some of the local female musicians like Tammy Moyo, Janet Manyowa and Ammara Brown, among others.