The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Since the start of 2021, South Africa has seen a resurgence in Covid-19 cases, more people seem to be contracting the virus and many are tragically losing their lives in this pandemic. Daily we have seen numbers increasing and these numbers have now become names of people we all know and are connected to. Netball South Africa president, Cecilia Molokwane, and her executive committee have taken a unanimous decision to suspend all planned netball activities until further notice with immediate effect from January 8, 2021. Postponed activities include the under-21 training camp which was scheduled for January 11-15, 2021, The Spar Challenge in Cape Town between the January 20-27, and the Male National Championships. This decision is taken with the aim of protecting the lives of all the players, members, stakeholders, and partners. “As the country continues to see Covid-19 numbers rising, it is very scary seeing what is going on around us. We see numbers rising and these numbers are names of people that we know. “As an executive, it was very important for us to take a decision to postpone all our planned activities until further notice. The president and Netball South Africa events team will continue to be in consultation with the Department of Sports, Arts and Culture as well as the Department of Health and will monitor the situation with the view of taking the best decision for the sport, the statement added. Molokwane concluded by saying, “I think it is also important that we take this time and continue to use this moment to educate our people about the importance of adhering to health regulations and protocols around Covid.” “Netball South Africa will continue to assess the situation over time and review the decision to either continue the events or keep them suspended until it is safe to resume playing. “The federation also urges all its members to minimise all forms of travel unless it is necessary to do so, the virus does not move unless if the people move it.” — SuperSport.com.