The Herald Elita Chikwati Agriculture Reporter Good rains have seen most crops doing well, although in some cases farmers are having to improve field drains and have been urged to continue harvesting water for future use. While pastures have improved, there is need to tend livestock to avoid diseases. The good rains have seen strong growth, but there are signs of leaching, with farmers appealing for quick distribution of ammonium nitrate to keep their crops growing while advisors suggest applying nitrates in small quantities fairly frequently. Recently, the Ministry of Lands, Agriculture, Water and Rural Resettlement assured farmers that they will get the top dressing fertiliser soon as Government had started importing the commodity. Zimbabwe National Farmers Union vice president, Mr Edward Dune yesterday said most crops were generally responding positively. Government programme of mandatory liming had also helped reduce leaching, but expressed concern over leaching in some parts of the country especially communal areas. “Farmers are appealing for top dressing fertilisers either ammonium nitrate or urea which has become excessively expensive. “Traders continue demanding payments in foreign currency thereby compounding the problem,” he said. He said cotton in some areas was also being affected by the wet conditions and farmers were having to improve field drainage where necessary. Tobacco curing was harder in continued wet conditions. “A2 farmers have performed much better than usual this season. Livestock is not spared by the incessant rains as farmers scrounge to mitigate against muddy kraals which promote skin problems especially with calves. “We thank Government for the tick grease programme which has been embraced countrywide,” he said. Zimbabwe Farmers Union president Dr Shadreck Makombe urged farmers to continue with water harvesting as they drain their waterlogged fields. While making contours and drains, farmers should at the same time harvest the water through weirs and wells for use in future. “Livestock has been affected by foot rot due to the prevailing wet conditions. We urge farmers to rotate cattle pens and kraals. Farmers should also continue dipping their cattle to reduce tick-borne diseases. “Dipping should be carried out at least twice per week and farmers should always follow weather advice from the Meteorological Services Department so they can make informed decisions on when to undertake farming operations. “Generally crops are in a good condition although farmers are confronted with a challenge of leaching. While draining their fields, farmers should harvest the water so they can use it during dry times. The water can be directed to weirs or farmers can dig wells for future use. “The bulk of the tobacco requires top dressing fertiliser which is high in demand. We are afraid if it is not availed on time, yields could be compromised,” he said.