The Herald LONDON.  — The standout fixture of the FA Cup fourth round this weekend sees Manchester United host Liverpool as the two take their rivalry to the next level. It is arguably the greatest rivalry in English football and fans around the world can expect a thriller from Old Trafford tomorrow at 7pm. Even before we’ve reached a consensus on what really occurred last weekend, here we go with round two of the double-header between the champions and the leaders. Last Sunday’s English Premier League meeting at Anfield certainly prompted more questions than answers. For both sides, it was an opportunity missed. Liverpool failed to claw back Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s pacesetters, while United seemed content — too content, according to many — to consolidate their advantage rather than extend it as their rivals muddled through without a senior centre-back. The pressure is off somewhat with no points up for grabs and — only? — a place in the FA Cup fifth round at stake at Old Trafford. Perhaps some easing of the tension will allow both sides to relax and flourish this weekend, especially while the option of settling for a draw is unavailable. Both managers have decisions to make in their selections. Since Jurgen Klopp went strong against Aston Villa’s Under-21s in the last round, we have to assume he will do the same again. Especially while he attempts to play his front three into something resembling form. For Solskjaer, the inevitable focus will fall upon Donny van de Beek. There is not a great deal more that the Dutchman can do with what little football he is being given, but sticking it to the scousers will certainly increase the clamour to make him more of a regular feature. FA Cup Fourth Round Fixtures Today: Southampton v Arsenal (2:15pm); Brighton & Hove Albion v Blackpool (5pm); Sheffield United v Plymouth Argyle (5pm); West Ham United v Doncaster Rovers (5pm); Barnsley v Norwich City (5pm); Millwall v Bristol City (5pm); Swansea City v Nottingham Forest (5pm); Cheltenham Town v Manchester City (7:30pm). Tomorrow: Chelsea v Luton Town (2pm); Fulham v Burnley (4:30pm); Brentford v Leicester City (4:30pm); Manchester United v Liverpool (7pm); Everton v Sheffield Wednesday (10pm). Monday: Wycombe Wanderers v Tottenham Hotspur (9:45pm). Tuesday: AFC Bournemouth v Crawley Town (9pm).— AFP.