The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Leonardo Castro’s first half strike sent South African football giants Kaizer Chiefs into the group stage of the CAF Champions League following a 1-0 first-round, second-leg victory over Primeiro de Agosto away at 11 November Stadium in Luanda on Tuesday night. After the first leg ended 0-0 at the FNB Stadium on December 23, Chiefs went through on a 1-0 aggregate scoreline as they extended their run of clean sheets to four games in this competition so far this season. Kaizer Chiefs are the first South African team to beat Agosto in Luanda and advanced to the CAF Champions League group stages. Kaizer Chiefs’ winner was created by Zimbabwean international Khama Billiat just before half-time. Overall, De Agosto had the better of the first-half exchanges and should have taken the lead six minutes before half-time, but striker Agostinho Paciência shot wide after outsprinting the opposition defence in a race down the middle of the field. Defender Erick Mathoho helped to pressure Paciência as he landed his scoring attempt. A minute later, Chiefs defence cleared their lines with a lengthy upfield kick, which Billiat picked up near the halfway line. Billiat set off down the left flank before crossing into the goalmouth where co-striker Leonardo Castro kneed the ball past goalkeeper Tony Cabaça and into the net. For all their domestic troubles, progressing to the group phase for the first time ever is a huge feat for Amakhosi. Coach Gavin Hunt started a similar squad he started in the home leg, making a few changes by bringing Bernard Parker, Castro and Nkosingiphile Ngcobo into the lineup. The Soweto giants looked a completely different side from the outfit that has been struggling on the domestic front. Their major threat came from set-pieces, with Eric Mathoho heading just over the bar from a Billiat free-kick after Castro had been fouled 15 minutes into the match. Another Billiat free-kick three minutes later was a cause for concern for the hosts as Siyabonga Ngezana’s diving header went off target. With Chiefs the more threatening side, Agosto responded through Honduras forward Bryan Velasquez, who lobbed Akpeyi, but Mathoho was on hand to clear the goal-bound ball in the 26th minute. Amakhosi escaped another raid on 31 minutes after Mabululo’s headed effort went over the bar before another dangerous attack four minutes later had Daniel Akpeyi save Manico’s powerful daisy-cutter. Zimbabwean Billiat continued to be a menace to the Agosto defence, shooting just wide following some nice exchanges with Castro a few moments later. The resultant counter-attack from the goal-kick caught Chiefs defenders napping, with Mabululo breaking loose, but his low drive narrowly missed the goal despite beating Akpeyi in what was the best chance of the first half. Castro then broke the impasse four minutes from half-time when he connected home Billiat’s cross from the left. The goal appeared to have fired up Chiefs, who saw Ramahlwe Mphahlele heading just over the cross bar from yet another Billiat free-kick just before the break, although Agosto had a decent change after the restart when Velasquez sent a free kick against the side netting after Bernard Parker had fouled Natael on the edge of the box. The Angolans showed hunger to claw their way back into the match, with Mabululo missing a point-blank header from a cross from the left on 53 minutes, and the pressure from the hosts kept Chiefs defenders busy, with Velasquez firing wide in 63rd minute after getting his shot away despite the attentions of Chiefs defenders. Hunt then introduced Samir Nurkovic for Castro and the Serb awakened Chiefs’ momentum as Agosto’s fizzled out. The hosts appeared to have given up and did not cause problems for Amakhosi towards the end as the visitors were firmly in control of the contest, although Congolese defender Bobo Ungenda headed wide in what was Agosto’s last meaningful effort of the game five minutes from time. Meanwhile, another South African side Mamelodi Sundowns have reached the CAF Champions League group stage after securing a 3-1 win over Jwaneng Galaxy in their first round second leg match at Loftus Versfeld Stadium on Tuesday evening. Kermit Erasmus opened the scoring before Mothobi Mvala and Thapelo Morena extended Masandawana’s lead, while Tebogo Sembowa grabbed Botswana champions Galaxy’s late consolation goal. Masandawana were looking to avoid a defeat in order to advance to the group stage, having claimed a 2-0 win in the first leg in Lobatse a fortnight ago. Kennedy Mweene, Andile Jali and Erasmus made their return to the starting line-up as head coach Manqoba Mngqithi made three changes to the team which faced Orlando Pirates over the weekend. On the other hand, Galaxy were hoping to cause an upset by eliminating a much-fancied Sundowns side, who looked set to reach the Champions League group stage for the sixth year running. Mngqithi’s counterpart Losikalame Keatlholetswe made three changes to the team which took on Masandawana in Botswana, with Thabang Sesinyi, Gofaone Molapi and Gilbert Baruti being recalled to the starting line-up. Galaxy threatened first through former Orlando Pirates midfielder Ricardo Lourenco, whose deflected shot was well saved by Mweene in the Sundowns goalposts a few minutes into the game. Although Masandawana dominated possession, they were unable to seriously test Galaxy goalkeeper Katlego Mbise as Erasmus and Aubrey Modiba placed their efforts wide of the target. Lourenco was consistently looking to shoot from range whenever he was in possession of the ball, and he forced Mweene into a magnificent diving save with a curling shot which was heading for the top corner. — Goal.com