The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter HE may have been denied a chance to make his Warriors debut by the Covid-19-induced travel complications, but United States-based Zimbabwean footballer Tendai Jirira hasn’t forgotten about the plight of the needy in this country. Jirira, together with goalkeeper Tatenda Mukuruva, who is also based in the United States, failed to honour the call to join the Warriors cast when they were included in coach Zdravko Logarusic’s squad that did duty in the back-to-back 2021 African Cup of Nations qualifiers against Algeria in November last year. The pair couldn’t get the flights due to travel complications that side, a situation which would mean Jirira missed the opportunity to win his first Warriors cap. But the Detroit City man, who is optimistic he will get another chance to break into the Warriors fold, has not forgotten his roots. He has put together resources with the help of his club’s supporters to help several orphanages in Zimbabwe. “I was very disappointed (not to travel for the Warriors double-header against Algeria last year), it’s such an honour to represent your country. Hopefully, I will get other opportunities when things get better,” said Jirira. “There is no better feeling in life than being called to represent your national team. I was so happy to receive that call-up last year. I am more than happy for that recognition even now but you know, it was very tough traveling and we all hope this pandemic will soon give way to our normal lives again.” Jirira, who moved to the United States eight years ago on a football scholarship, said he has always believed in giving. “I have always believed in giving back to the community as an important part of playing football. Not everyone has the best of opportunities in life, sometimes the little help can make a big difference. Detroit City FC supporters share the same sentiment, so when I extended the opportunity for donations towards some orphanages, they were very willing to make a difference.” Jirira has enlisted the services World Athletic Recruits run by Philip Ndemera to identify the most needy orphanages in the country where he will donate goodies and sports equipment this week. “I have partnered with the World Athletic Recruits to help in identifying and distributing the resources. This is not going to be the last time. It’s a continuous process. That is why I have decided to get a partner to help out in the identification and distribution process.” He said his ultimate goal is to play in the world’s best leagues including the English Premiership, Spanish La Liga or the German Bundesliga.