The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter AS 2021 takes off, a new journey for most people also begins with new expectations, targets and goals set with the hope they will be realised by the time we get to the end of year. For sportspersons and national sport associations they are already looking at the possibilities and new opportunities 2021 will bring. For boxer Charles Manyuchi, the current situation makes it difficult to be certain with in terms of his goals and plans for the new year but one of his targets this year is to defend the World Boxing Federation title. And he is expecting a number of boxers from the Charles Manyuchi Academy to challenge for various continental titles. “For 2021 we had plans that on February 26 and March 27 we host a boxing tournament where I was going to participate, to defend the WBF championship. Those are the dates we have in place to defend (the title) and some of our boxers to challenge (for different) WBF titles. If everything goes well and if God permits, we are hosting and I am defending, that’s why now I am camping in Masvingo and that’s where I am also doing some mining business. “We are ready for 2021 and we pray that everything goes well today (yesterday) so that we can enter into 2021 without obstacles . . . We start a new year with new minds, with a new vision,” said Manyuchi. Senior netball team shooter Sharon Bwanali believes 2021 may bring better fortunes for her and her goal is to follow in the footsteps of captain Felisitus Kwangwa and breakthrough into the Vitality Netball Super League in England. “For 2021, I am expecting to move to England, join a club in the Vitality Super League. If it doesn’t work out as I am hoping, I will keep on working hard and trying. There are some indications, I may get that opportunity,” Bwanali said. Field hockey player Courtney Lowe is looking forward to positively impact other people’s lives. “2020 has been a difficult year for me being in the UK and far away from my family for over a year and a half was difficult. As well as training for hockey was difficult motivating myself and away from my teammates was also difficult. “I finally got to come home and train with my teammates which was a big motivation as well as having my teammates motivating me and bonding together as a squad. “My plans for the new year is to stay as fit as I have been as well as motivate other people to change their habits into healthy habits. “Another resolution is to be the best version of myself and not compare myself to anyone else and push myself even harder in 2021. And to improve my stick skills as well as maintain my fitness levels,” said Lowe. For the Zimbabwe Karate Union , the plan is to equip their members with life skills to deal with unforeseen circumstances as the Covid-19 pandemic wiped out their 2020 season. “We aim to conduct virtual seminars with our athletes, coaches and support staff on how to be responsive in the wake of such unforeseen pandemics like Covid-19 and to embrace the new normal. Virtual gradings are also under consideration to avoid stagnation,” said ZKU president Steve Charandura. Sprinter Dickson Kamungeremu is looking at turning around his career by engaging a personal manager. “Going into 2021 I need to get a personal manager to assist with my career. It helps to have a manager by your side because you can solely focus on training on the track while they take care of the sponsorship and welfare side of things.