The Herald SYDNEY. — Australia snapped up two wickets in the final session in Sydney yesterday to leave India with work to do in the third Test cricket as they chase the hosts’ 338 following Steve Smith’s first century in more than a year. Pace spearheads Josh Hazlewood and Pat Cummins got the breakthroughs, dismissing openers Rohit Sharma (26) and Shubman Gill (50) as India reached stumps at 96 for two, leaving them 242 adrift. The dogged Cheteshwar Pujara was not out on nine and captain Ajinkya Rahane, who scored a century in the last test at Melbourne, was on five. Australia resumed their first innings at the Sydney Cricket Ground on 166 for two, but only managed another 172 in the face of India’s spirited fightback led by spinner Ravindra Jadeja who took 4-62. Smith, though, was the star attraction, smacking 131 — his 27th century, and his first since the 2019 Ashes in England — before being the last man to fall. Marnus Labuschagne made 91 and Will Pucovski 62 on debut. India’s openers negotiated a tricky nine overs before tea to be 26 without loss, and they put on another 44 before Hazlewood struck, removing Sharma for 26. The veteran right-hander hadn’t played since straining a hamstring in October and only joined the team last week after spending a fortnight in quarantine. But he quickly shook off the rust, hitting a big six off Nathan Lyon before surviving a scare on 24, when he was given out before the decision was reversed on review. His reprieve proved short-lived, however, making just two more before being caught and bowled. At the other end Gill, who made his debut in Melbourne, scoring 45 and 35 not out, again showed his composure and skill, reinforcing his status as a potential long-term opener. Just 21, he brought up a maiden test half-century before nicking an edge to Cameron Green off Cummins. It left Pujara and Rahane to dig in and see India safely to stumps as the runs dried up. Smith, who averages more than 61, failed to reach double figures in the first two tests but roared back to life on his home ground, reaching his ton off 201 balls.  — AFP.