The Herald Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S eagerly awaited tour of Afghanistan is now likely to take place in Oman if it manages to go ahead as scheduled next month. The cricket authorities in Oman announced the development this week after their Oman Cricket Academy (OCA) Ground 1 was accredited by the International Cricket Council to host high profile games. However, the Afghanistan Cricket Board, who are hosting Zimbabwe for two Tests and three T20 Internationals are yet to make a formal announcement. Afghanistan recently attained Test status and this will be their first time to engage in the longer format of the game. The tour however is still shrouded in uncertainty. Zimbabwe Cricket have put all their activities on hold following the announcement of new lockdown measures to counter the surge in the coronavirus cases. ZC are looking forward to apply for exemptions from the Sports and Recreation Commission to take up the tour. “Following the new lockdown restrictions announced by the Government in the wake of the spike in COVID-19 cases across the country, Zimbabwe Cricket has with immediate effect temporarily put all cricket activities on hold. “This is a very challenging situation, but ZC’s aim is to reschedule all the affected events and fixtures – including the elite men’s domestic T20 competition which was scheduled to begin this (last) Monday – for them to be played as soon as it is deemed safe to do so. “In this fast-moving environment, further updates will be provided when appropriate,” the association said in a statement. Originally the tour was expected to take place either in India or United Arab Emirates since Afghanistan cannot host on home soil because of security concerns. The Oman Cricket authorities are already looking forward to the tour. This will be their first time to host a Test match in their country. Secretary of Oman Cricket Madhu Jesrani sAid they are looking forward to host a successful event. “This is a big news and a wonderful achievement for Oman Cricket. The New Year has started on such a promising note for the Sultanate. Apart from the UAE, Oman is the only other Associate nation to enjoy Test, ODI and T20I status. This is a very proud moment for us all,” said Jesrani. The tour is expected to mark the return to international cricket for Zimbabwe. The Chevrons, whose international schedule was upset by the coronavirus last year, are hoping for better fortunes this year. Zimbabwe were forced to either cancel or postpone their matches and had returned to action in October when they toured Pakistan and played a three-match One Day International series and as many T20I matches. They had a congested calendar in 2021 where, according to the FTP, they will tour Afghanistan (two Tests, three T20Is), host Pakistan (two Tests and three T20Is), host Bangladesh (two Tests, three ODIs and three T20Is), travel to Ireland (one Test, three ODIs and five T20Is) and they will wrap up the year by hosting Afghanistan (one Test, three ODIs and two T20Is). Zimbabwe Cricket is pushing to host India this year while they are also expected to play Netherlands sometime during the year. They were supposed to have hosted India last year but the tour was cancelled due to the coronavirus-induced lockdowns. Their tour to Australia was also called off while Ireland’s visit to Zimbabwe also could not take place.