The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Handball Federation are hoping they can go ahead with their elective general meeting as they closed nominations over the weekend. The meeting had been scheduled for January 23 at Girls High School in Harare before the Sports Commission announced the suspension of all sporting activities in the country. The national federation has applied to the Sports Commission seeking approval to proceed with the meeting, which is mainly to elect a new executive. The president’s post, vice president and two committee members will be contested while the secretary-general and treasurer will be appointed by the new leadership that would have been elected into office. According to the nominations that have been submitted, incumbent president Stewart Sanhewe is up against Beauty Mtsambiwa for the presidency. Alfos Mhondiwa and Reginald Tsimba are vying for the vice-president’s position. Mhondiwa is the outgoing vice president. For the two committee members’ posts there are seven nominees. These are Tsimba, Mhondiwa, Petros Nyathi, Miriam Tofa, Clemence Tauro, Rafina Mufuni and Munashe Banda. Outgoing ZHF secretary-general, Edson Chirowodza confirmed the closure of the nomination process, whose deadline was January 9. He said it is encouraging to see a number of women on the nominations by provinces. “In terms of nominations for the committee members we have seen two females being nominated by the provinces, which is a good thing to see women being considered for leadership positions. “For the president’s post Dr (Beauty) Mtsambiwa is coming in as the female nominee, another positive. I think this is the first time in the history of handball to have a female contesting for the top post. “She is coming with a background of schools as a former head in charge of handball Nash (National Association Secondary School Heads). She was head in charge until last year,” said Chirowodza. Chirowodza said they submitted their application to the Sports Commission last week and are now waiting for feedback on whether they can proceed or defer the elections. The national executive election comes after the completion of the same process in the provinces last month and it is the provincial chairpersons that are expected to vote during the elective general meeting. The outgoing national executive led by Sanhewe came into office in December 2016. The national handball mother body will also be looking at conducting elections for their various commissions after the executive. These include Athletes’ Commission, Women’s Commission, Referees and Coaches Commissions.