The Herald LONDON. — Frank Lampard has been sacked as Chelsea manager with the Blues ninth in the English Premier League football table after a poor run of results. Lampard, who is the club’s all-time leading goalscorer, enjoyed a good first season as Blues boss, taking them to the FA Cup final and securing qualification for the Champions League. But after being given more than £200m to spend on new players in the summer, Chelsea find themselves ninth in the English Premier League after 19 games, 11 points behind leaders Manchester United and five points off Liverpool in fourth. Chelsea beat Luton Town 3-1 in the FA Cup fourth round on Sunday, but the victory was not enough to keep Lampard in his job, with owner Roman Abramovich dismissing him yesterday. Former Paris Saint-Germain and Borussia Dortmund manager Thomas Tuchel is expected to be appointed in Lampard’s place, having left PSG in December. Lampard took the side on a 17-game unbeaten run but away defeats to Everton, Wolves, Arsenal and Leicester and a 3-1 home defeat to Manchester City have cost him his job. A club statement read: “This has been a very difficult decision, and not one that the owner and the Board have taken lightly. ‘We are grateful to Frank for what he has achieved in his time as Head Coach of the Club. However, recent results and performances have not met the Club’s expectations, leaving the Club mid-table without any clear path to sustained improvement. “There can never be a good time to part ways with a club legend such as Frank, but after lengthy deliberation and consideration it was decided a change is needed now to give the Club time to improve performances and results this season.” Owner Roman Abramovich added: “This was a very difficult decision for the Club, not least because I have an excellent personal relationship with Frank and I have the utmost respect for him. “He is a man of great integrity and has the highest of work ethics. However, under current circumstances we believe it is best to change managers. “On behalf of everyone at the Club, the Board and personally, I would like to thank Frank for his work as Head Coach and wish him every success in the future. He is an important icon of this great club and his status here remains undiminished. He will always be warmly welcomed back at Stamford Bridge.” The Blues have actually won three of their last four games, with a league victory over Fulham and FA Cup win against Morecambe, but that masks their recent struggles. Lampard has mustered just two wins in the last eight Premier League games, with defeats to Leicester City, Man City, Arsenal, Wolves and Everton in that time. — Metro.