The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Lifestyle Writer In a world turned upside down, attitudes, preferences, habits and choices have to change. What used to be unthinkable suddenly becomes the norm, it becomes the new normal, so they say. And what we never imagined doable suddenly is the “in-thing”. Such is life and with the advent of coronavirus, a good number of people have changed their old habits, attitudes and choices to suit the new normal. Back in the day, people never imagined that some of the simple home remedies could be considered as a cure for such a virus as Covid-19, which has become the biggest threat to humanity. It is not advisable to focus much on the home remedies whose efficacy is not yet proven and doctors and experts have since cautioned against the use of such traditional herbs. Just going about our daily lives wearing masks, washing our hands at least regularly and observing physical distancing is not only required by law, but now also a matter of life and death. The washing of hands and wearing of masks appears simple, but more important than ever. And yet we have changed our lifestyles, whether poor or rich, because we are all trying to survive the virus. The global pandemic has affected everyone to the extent that those who used to hate herbs or visiting the doctors are now at the forefront of indulging. Whoever thought “mapositori” would ditch their “holy water”, and go to nearby bushes looking for some of what they think can cure some of the symptoms of Covid-19? Since last year, the grim toll has grown, families grieve and societies stagger on how to contain the virus. So far, the most recognisable feat is the change in lifestyles. Many are now going back to old traditions of doing things and how people used to cure themselves of diseases. Proponents of traditional medicines in the likes of Dr Kamwelo Banda affectionately known as Sekuru Banda have long campaigned for the production and use of herbal mixtures which they believe can cure some of the world’s deadliest ailments like cancer, diabetes and blood pressure. Social media sites like TikTok, Facebook and Instagram have gone ablaze with people showing their love for the zumbani plant leaves in the belief that they can stand against Covid-19. It does not matter whether one is old school, a fashionista, a youth, or later day “nose-brigades” who are also known as “slay queens”. “Masalads” and “slay queens” are joining bandwagon, turning to anything they think might help, including the now popular steaming or “kunatira” in Shona. And the one sad thing about Covid-19 is that it doesn’t select whether you are a boss, a well-to-do individual, priest or ordinary Joe, it is affecting everyone, causing an epochal health crisis. Top model and celebrity Hillary Makaya said the steaming process has become her routine and she now drinks zumbani tea, although she is not really sure how effectively these will protect her in case she catches the virus. “Covid-19 is real and please observe the regulations and restrictions being prescribed by Government and the World Health Organisation,” she said. “These include wearing masks, washing or sanitising hands, staying at home and social distancing.” “Although not recommended by health experts, if possible steam before you sleep and do not abuse the traditional herbs.” Comedienne Tyra Chikocho a.k.a Madam Boss has posted several videos promoting the African herbs which she thinks can be used to heal some of the symptoms of Covid-19. Around 773 deaths have been recorded in the country since the first case of the deadly respiratory virus was confirmed last year. Health experts say the latest rise in the number of people succumbing to the virus could be heralding the beginning of a catastrophe ahead, as the country struggles with people that have continued to defy Covid-19 lockdown regulations, as well as safety precautions. In its Covid-19 situational report update, health ministry said on Monday that the country recorded 689 new cases of the virus, out of a total 27 892 infections. About 700 new cases were all said to be local infections, and health analysts said that people in the country should not continue to underestimate the effects of the second wave of Covid-19. The national case fatality rate now stands at 2,8 percent as at January 18, 2021. Harare reported the highest number of cases at 339, while a total of 60 Covid-19 deaths were reported on Wednesday, and 37 of the deaths occurred at institutional level, with 23 being recorded at community level according to the Ministry’s update. It further said that on Monday, all provinces in the country reported Covid-19 cases. And just as the statistics keep growing, everyone is now seized with seeking ways they think can protect them, at least before they seek medical attention, and many are  turning to unproven traditional herbs. Some of the herbal treatments that others have put their faith in even if not medically proven are eucalyptus oil and zumbani, which they steam twice or thrice a day. Others are drinking zumbani, which is often referred to as the fever tree or just tea. Some of the concoctions people are taking are bizarre and scary — like putting zumbani leaves in a mask and mixing them with salt, guava leaves, nyevhe and eucalyptus leaves before inhaling. While many people hope to survive the new strain of Covid-19, some actually risk dying from adverse effects of the several concoctions they are taking. Popular and controversial disc jockey and social media guru Tawanda Marimbe (Dj Tawaz) says he has changed his lifestyle and believes much in zumbani, although he could not say from where he gets the confidence because the herb was never scientifically tested with regards to Covid-19. “My friend, mbingaldo Mambondini bought me zumbani and I use it every day in the morning and before I sleep,” he said. “My politician friend tested positive during the Christmas holiday and I was very scared and this is when I started using it.” All this is happening now as people try to beat the virus. Despised Traditional medicines and mixtures have proved efficient in curing certain ailments, but they have been generally demonised. The despising of the traditional medicines dates back to the re-configuration of African history and literature by foreigners who portrayed African culture as evil. Even the traditional healers were called witch doctors, a derogatory name by colonisers. Madzibaba Brian (38) from Highfield said he has ditched the famous “muteuro”, not that he doesn’t believe in it anymore. He just decided to follow trends. “Covid-19 is scary and I can’t risk my life,” said Madzibaba Brian. “I am a strong believer of the apostolic church, but now even our elders are telling us to try what we can in order to survive. “Our lifestyle has totally changed, but everything has its own time.” It is now a case of what one believes in, but prevention is better than cure and the best way to deal with Covid for now is to wear a mask, sanitise or wash hands, social distancing and, mostly importantly, just stay at home and avoid mixing with outsiders who may be carrying the virus.