The Herald Crime Reporter Investigations into the cases in which two public prosecutors are being accused of allegedly consenting to bail for two suspected armed robbers who operated with suspected gang leader, Musa Taj Abdul, are at an advanced stage. The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) filed complaints against the two prosecutors, Arthur Bosha and Douglas Chesa for facilitating the release of Musafare Mupamhanga and Douglas Mutenda. The complaints were made to the Police Anti-Corruption Unit (PACU) and the Special Anti-Corruption Unit (SACU). Last week, High Court Judge Justice Benjamin Chikowero was approached by the police to give a statement as a potential witness on circumstances which led him to grant bail to one of the suspected armed robbers. Sources yesterday confirmed that investigations were at an advanced stage. Head of SACU Mr Thabani Mpofu said: “The matters are under investigations and I can’t comment any further, but we are very much concerned about issues where robbers and dangerous criminals are released on bail pending appeal. This is a serious concern to us and these matters are under investigation.” Chesa is under probe on allegations of consenting to bail on December 8 for suspected armed robber, Douglas Mutenda. Mutenda, who has since been rearrested, is facing several counts of armed robberies and had been released on $5 000 bail on December 9 after the State consented on the basis that some of his co-accused, including Mupamhanga were out on bail. He was arrested on Christmas Eve in Mhondoro. CID then again filed another complaint against Bosha who last year consented to bail for Mupamhanga who also allegedly operated with Musa Taj Abdul. Mupamhanga and his co-accused Conwell Kasambarare and Spicer Takawira are believed to be part of the gang which last year raided Mashwede Holdings and got away with over US$100 000, R42 000, $14 000 worth of fuel coupons, firearms and 20 live rounds of ammunition were recently released from jail pending appeal at the High Court. They have since gone into hiding and police are still looking for them. Police are also looking for more than nine robbers, including two ex-policemen, who are believed to be unleashing terror countrywide.