The Herald Crime Reporter Police are still in the hunt for the three suspected armed robbers masquerading as police officers who shot and killed a 35-year-old Rusape man on Saturday. The suspects had raided the man’s house along Gopal Avenue and shot him five times. One of the suspects was wearing a police uniform while his two accomplices were in civilian attire. They did not steal anything after shooting the victim, whose name is yet to be released. Sources close to the investigations yesterday said no arrests have been made and the search for the suspects is on. A team of detectives from Harare and Rusape have since been activated to probe the matter. So far, police know that the suspected robbers went to the victim’s house where they knocked at the gate before two of them jumped over a security wall to get into the yard, before confronting the victim’s 65-year-old father and ordered him to sit down, to which he complied. The victim later approached the suspected robbers and was also ordered to sit down but refused. They then shot him five times before they fled. A report was made to the police. His body was taken to Rusape General Hospital mortuary for post-mortem. Meanwhile, police are also looking for the six armed men who stormed a security company in Harare, disarmed guards, robbed the premises and raped a female guard. The robbers got away with cell phones, cash and a television set. The case occurred in Whitecliff on December 23, 2020, at about 3am when the six unidentified men stormed a security services premises and disarmed security guards on duty before stealing various items including cash, cellphones and a television set. One of the security guards was blindfolded and raped. In another unrelated case, on December 24 last year, at about 11am, a Bulawayo man lost a Silver Honda Fit Aria registration number ABH 7129 at Corner Fife Street and 13th Avenue after he left the keys on the ignition while proceeding to his offices near a service station. He found the car missing 45 minutes later. Investigations are still in progress. Police in Concession, Mashonaland Central, also arrested three men and recovered a stolen Astra Pistol loaded with a magazine that had six rounds of ammunition and several sachets of dagga. The firearm was stolen from a car parked in the CBD of Harare on December 24 at around 2pm and the trio was arrested at a security roadblock after they tried to evade the checkpoint on foot. A bunch of house keys was also recovered from the suspects. Investigations are in progress. Two men were also robbed of property worth US$267 and $400 in Ruwa by unknown two men after boarding a grey Toyota Wish in Ruwa destined for the city on December 28. On the same day, a Mbare man was robbed of property worth US$1 591 after boarding an unspecified vehicle at an illegal bus stop opposite the Harare International Conference Centre destined for Mbare. Another man also lost US$37 and $180 cash to three unknown men in Southview Park, Harare, after boarding an unmarked silver Toyota Wish at Mbudzi roundabout going to Ushewekunze.