The Herald Nick Higgins
University of the West of Scotland
Zimbabwe joins the rest of the world tomorrow (February 21) in celebrating the International Mother Tongue Day. The theme for this year is “Fostering Multilingualism for Inclusion in Education and Society”. Pupils and students are expected to take part in this crucial celebration, which this year will be held virtually because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education is working with the University of Zimbabwe’s Department of Languages and CapiTalk in coming up with panel discussions and presentations. Provinces were encouraged to participate in the celebrations through essay writing, with each district expected to submit three of their best essays to the province for onward transmission to Head Office. International Mother Language Day recognises that languages and multilingualism can advance inclusion, and the Sustainable Development Goals’ focus on leaving no one behind, believes education, based on the first language or mother tongue, must begin from the early years as early childhood care and education is the foundation of learning. This year’s observance is a call on policymakers, educators and teachers, parents and families to scale up their commitment to multilingual education, and inclusion in education to advance education recovery in the context of Covid-19. This effort also contributes to the United Nations International Decade of Indigenous Languages,  for which UNESCO is the lead agency, and which places multilingualism at the heart of indigenous peoples’ development. Languages, with their complex implications for identity, communication, social integration, education and development, are of strategic importance for people and planet. Yet, due to globalisation processes, they are increasingly under threat, or disappearing altogether. When languages fade, so does the world’s rich tapestry of cultural diversity. Opportunities, traditions, memory, unique modes of thinking and expression — valuable resources for ensuring a better future — are also lost. Every two weeks a language disappears taking with it an entire cultural and intellectual heritage. At least 43 percent of the estimated 6 000 languages spoken in the world are endangered.  Only a few hundred languages have genuinely been given a place in education systems and the public domain, and less than a hundred are used in the digital world. Multilingual and multicultural societies exist through their languages which transmit and preserve traditional knowledge and cultures in a sustainable way. International Mother Language Day is observed every year to promote linguistic and cultural diversity and multilingualism. International Mother Language Day was proclaimed by the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation in November 1999. The UN General Assembly welcomed the proclamation of the day in its resolution On May 16, 2007 the United Nations General Assembly in its resolution called upon Member States “to promote the preservation and protection of all languages used by peoples of the world”. By the same resolution, the General Assembly proclaimed 2008 as the International Year of Languages , to promote unity in diversity and international understanding, through multilingualism and multiculturalism and named the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation to serve as the lead agency for the Year. Today there is growing awareness that languages play a vital role in development, in ensuring cultural diversity and inter-cultural dialogue, but also in strengthening co-operation and attaining quality education for all, in building inclusive knowledge societies and preserving cultural heritage, and in mobilising political will for applying the benefits of science and technology to sustainable development.  — TheConversation.com.