The Herald Joseph Madzimure
Senior Reporter
First Lady Amai Auxillia Mnangagwa, who is the patron of Angel of Hope Foundation, yesterday put smiles on faces of people living with disabilities and their families after she availed groceries to cushion them during the Covid-19 lockdown period. She donated tonnes of maize meal and rice, packs of washing soap and boxes of cooking oil to recipients at Ruwa Rehabilitation Centre. Through her charity work, the First Lady is complementing Government efforts to address the issue of self-reliance among people living with disabilities. Speaking soon after receiving the donation at the rehabilitation centre Minister of Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare Professor Paul Mavima, who was represented by director of Disability Affairs in the ministry, Dr Christine Peta, commended Amai Mnangagwa’s gesture to improve the well-being of persons with disabilities in Zimbabwe. The grocery hampers will be distributed across the country through the representative organisations of persons with disabilities. “Today, we are receiving from the Angel of Hope Foundation, food hampers for persons with disabilities, but I would like to say that the kindness of the First Lady does not end here. “The First Lady believes in the principle of teaching a man so that you feed him for a lifetime,” said Dr Peta. Dr Peta said Amai Mnangagwa was partnering various stakeholders which included the Ministry of Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare and the Zimbabwe Women Micro Finance Bank, to assist persons with disabilities have access to microfinance facilities and to also attend courses that enabled them to acquire business management skills to enable them to manage their economic projects. She said her ministry would work together with the Angel of Hope Foundation towards empowering persons with disabilities to enter the formal labour market and establish their own economic projects to ensure they were able to fend for themselves and their families. “We therefore, together with the Angel of Hope for Foundation work towards empowering persons with disabilities to enter the formal labour market and to establish their own economic projects.” Dr Peta said the mother of the nation, Amai Mnangagwa, also believed in giving persons with disabilities, the fish rod and relevant skills. “We therefore, together address the issue of self-help projects for persons with disabilities thereby paying attention to issues of economic empowerment of persons with disabilities including parents and guardians of children with disabilities.” The First Lady’s passion and commitment towards enhancing the well-being of vulnerable groups, including persons with disabilities, has long been evident. “Indeed the Angel of Hope Foundation has become a potent vehicle of her philanthropic work. She has taken time and continues to take time to talk to people including people at grassroots level in both urban and rural areas so that she gains understanding of their needs and concerns and she responds accordingly.” Dr Peta said that the First Lady’s biggest strengths included her humility and love for people from all walks of life, including persons with disabilities. Angel of Hope Foundation was an anchor in helping the country to reach its potential, thereby upholding the spirit of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of leaving no one behind. Dr Peta said the First Lady had a passion for the welfare of women, children and the elderly.