The Herald Yeukai Karengezeka Arts Correspondent United Kingdom-based Zimbabwean gospel musician Lewis Ngara has said he is excited to receive an honorary award in the Outstanding Diaspora Male Gospel Singer category at the recently held inaugural Zim Community News (ZCN) Awards. The awards, which were held virtually because of the global pandemic restrictions was meant to honour business people, gospel musicians, community builders and social entrepreneurs for the outstanding work they have done to empower the Zimbabwean community both locally and in the diaspora. Ngara said in an interview that his efforts were now bearing fruits. “I feel humbled to receive the recognition, he said. It shows that hard work really pays off and I had a number of projects that I worked on together with my wife Tau Ngara last year. Both local and international support has made this achievement possible. The Jesus Is Calling , hit maker said he was working on the video for his latest collaborative track “Tinokupai Mbiri” released end of November last year. The song produced by Olin Anderson of Kunashe Studios in Mutare is enjoying airplay on various radio stations. It featured gospel diva Bethany Pasinawako-Ngolomi and Obert Chari of the Mebo fame. Upcoming musicians Sandra Chirenje, Mr Favour, Minister Praise Goveia, Dorcas Moyo and Forget Kuweyo were also part of the project. “Initially, we wanted to release our video end of this month, but we failed to do so after stalling the project due to the national lock down sanctioned by the Government, said Ngara. We shall finalise shooting once the lockdown measures have been relaxed.” Reflecting on 2020, Ngara thanked his fans for supporting his music, which saw him having his songs — “Tirikuona Minana”, “Mwari Makandinakira”, “Lets Praise The Lord”, and “Hameno Zvavo Vasina Mwenje” featuring on all end of year local radio gospel chart shows Top 50. “We are very grateful to our fans for their unwavering support that has made us where we are today, he said. We have a huge fan base here in Zimbabwe despite us being based in the diaspora. I had five songs that made it into all end of year gospel chart shows and one video “Tirikuona Munana” on the ZTV Top 50.” Ngara, who is also a professional teacher, started singing from his childhood, but hogged the limelight with his debut album “Ngariyende” in 2006. It was followed up by “Handichatamba naSatani” (2007), “Jesus is Calling” (2013), “Love Jesus”, “Ndisiye Ndisiye” (2016), “Regai Zvikurirane” (2018) and “Ndiri Mukundi” (2019). Ngara has been churning out singles and last year he collaborated with Mathias Mhere on a single called “Kwatabva Kure”.