The Herald The 15-member United Nations Security Council met on Tuesday to vote on a joint statement after Myanmar military chief Min Aung Hlaing on Monday seized control of the country, detaining hundreds of lawmakers, including President Win Myint and the de facto head of government Aung San Suu Kyi. UN ambassadors from China and Russia said they would need the respective blessings of Beijing and Moscow before agreeing. “China and Russia have asked for more time,” a diplomat told Agency France-Presse. As permanent members of the UN Security Council, China and Russia are able to veto or delay the body’s activities. According to Xinhua news agrency, Myanmar President U Win Myint and State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi will be remanded in detention until February 15, a National League for Democracy (NLD) official confirmed yesterday. The police sued President U Win Myint under the National Disaster Management Law and State Counsellor Suu Kyi under the Export and Import Law, Kyi Toe, an information committee member of the party, said on his social media account. Police documents which were spread on social media, said President U Win Myint and his family met people on the NLD’s campaign trail on September 20 last year ahead of the November general elections, and was charged with breaching Covid-19 related measures under the Natural Disaster Management Law. Suu Kyi was charged under the Export and Import Law as hand-held radios that were illegally imported and used without permission were found in the search of her residence in the capital city of Nay Pyi Taw. The police requested to a court for detention of the two leaders for 15 days from February 1 to 15, stressing “to question witnesses, request evidence and seek legal counsel” as reasons. The military and police sides have yet to make any official statement so far. The NLD posted a statement on its social media page yesterday, demanding the release of the detained leaders including President U Win Myint and State Counsellor Suu Kyi, acknowledge the results of 2020 general elections and stop any disturbances which are hindering the process of convening the third parliamentary session. The president and state counsellor were detained by the military, along with other NLD officials early Monday. The President’s Office later declared a one-year state of emergency and the state power was handed over to the Commander-in-Chief of Defence Services, according to the military’s statement. The Office of the Commander-in-Chief of Defence Services announced formation of a new 11-membered State Administration Council under Section 419 of Constitution late Tuesday. Chaired by Commander-in-Chief of Defence Services Sen-Gen Min Aung Hlaing, the council is comprised of 10 other members including Vice-Senior General Soe Win as deputy chair. The council terminated the Deputy Attorney-General from his duties. On the same day, the State Administration Council approved the retirement of Police Lieutenant General Aung Win Oo, Chief of Myanmar Police Force, while transferring Major General Soe Tint Naing, former Deputy Minister for Home Affairs to serve as Deputy Minister for the Union Government Office. — Xinhua/Business Insider.