The Herald LONDON. — Manchester United forward Marcus Rashford says he was subjected to “humanity and social media at its worst” after receiving racist abuse on Saturday. The 22-year-old, who was awarded the MBE for his work fighting child food poverty, received multiple racist messages on Instagram on Saturday. They were sent to the England striker after United’s 0-0 draw with Arsenal. “I’m a black man and I live every day proud that I am,” he said on Twitter. “No-one, or no one comment, is going to make me feel any different. So sorry if you were looking for a strong reaction, you’re just simply not going to get it here. “I’m not sharing screenshots. It would be irresponsible to do so and as you can imagine there’s nothing original in them. “I have beautiful children of all colours following me and they don’t need to read it. Beautiful colours that should only be celebrated.” In a statement released yesterday, Greater Manchester Police (GMP) said it was aware that a number of Manchester United players had suffered abuse on social media between Wednesday and Saturday. It added: “Nobody should be subject to such abuse and it is deeply upsetting not only to those who suffer it, but to all those who come across this awful language too. “These hateful words have no place anywhere in our society whether online or otherwise.” GMP also added that a number of comments had been reported, that it was “working with those involved to provide support” and that it would be “investigating these crimes thoroughly”. Facebook, which owns Instagram, also released a statement after Rashford’s abuse. It said: “We have taken action in this case by removing accounts and comments and are continuing to investigate.” Speaking on Match of the Day, former Arsenal and England striker Ian Wright said the authorities and social media companies need to do more to identify the perpetrators. He said: “It seems to be a fact if a black player plays poorly — or they think they did — they come with all the emojis and whatever. There are ways of being able to catch people. They’re not vigilant enough, nowhere near. “It should be something they’re doing hand in hand [authorities and social media sites]. But how much do they care deep down?” Former Tottenham, Newcastle and England midfielder Jermaine Jenas added: “The platforms, I need them to show me these people and say they’re doing everything they can to bring some justice. For those asking why we are still taking the knee, there you go.” — BBC Sport.