The Herald Grace Chingoma
Senior Sports Reporter
FORMER ZIFA technical advisor, Klaus Dieter Pagels, says he always believed Mighty Warriors skipper, Emmaculate Msipa, was destined to break into Europe. Speaking from his hometown of Stade, Germany, where he once invited the Mighty Warriors for a high-level two-week training camp, Pagels said he was proud of Msipa. The Mighty Warriors star joined Spanish side, CF Joventut Almassora, this week. The midfielder arrived in Spain on Thursday and was due to undergo  medicals yesterday before putting pen to paper on a one-year contract. “I am really proud of Emma,’’ said Pagels. “When I saw her for the first time in a match, I knew she was special. “I had never before saw a woman player who was physically in very good shape for football and her technical skills allowed her to look up always. “That means she can control a match all the time. “Don’t forget her strong shooting. “All of this is worthless without a strong and good character. Emma is a human you will call your best friend. ‘’I sent her my regards after she joined the club and I am sure she will be successful in Spain.’’ Pagels worked with ZIFA, for three years — between 2010 and 2013 — and had a passion for development and the women’s game. It is almost eight years, since he left Zimbabwe, but he vividly recalls the period when he assisted the Mighty Warriors team. “We had a very good team, when I worked for ZIFA from 2010 to 2013. The technical team worked hard and made the girls better day-by-day. ‘’The camp, in my hometown in 2011, pushed the team and made them mentally stronger. “Emma is not the only one who was outstanding at that time. Onai (Chingawo) and Marjorie (Nyaumwe) went to Munich, during that time, for trials and they did very well there. “The coach was impressed with the skills of both players, but it was a pity Bayern München had no money to come up with a contract.” As he enjoys his retirement in Stade, Pagels is happy for the part he played in helping Zimbabwean’s football. “For me, it was a pleasure to stay with the technical team and the Mighty Warriors, because you know a lot of the players were members of the delegation to the Olympic Games,’’ he said. “I think it was a big success for the girls, and Zimbabwe, as a country. They made Zimbabwe, and me, very proud.” Msipa’s former coach, Langton Giwa, was also elated that one of his products had made the breakthrough into Europe. Giwa is one of the most underrated women’s football coaches in the country. “We took her when she was in Form 1. I was coaching at Mufakose 1 High,’’ said Giwa. “She was disciplined, never late for training sessions, and would demand extra work. We knew she was destined for bigger things. “Emma, if you tell her tactics to do, she would execute ten perfectly well, it was clear she was ahead of her teammates, in terms of tactical play. “So, even in Spain, I am confident of her abilities. “We have many players like her, hopefully, their turn will come. “As a coach, you feel satisfied that you mentor players who go on to do well.” The veteran coach has produced a number of players. “I have worked with a lot of players, though, I am yet to see the rewards,’’ he said. “We started the Mufakose project in 1993, where many players came from, but other coaches took the glory with the end product. “I was happy that the players had secured permanent employment but I am sure, according to rules, the people who develop players should be rewarded. “I am still developing more players but, honestly, there is a need for remuneration because, at the end of the day, you have a family that needs to be looked after.’’