The Herald LONDON. — Arsenal are investigating Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang for potentially breaking coronavirus rules. The Gabon international footballer recently got a new tattoo on his hand and  the Gunners are now determined to get the bottom of the matter. Arsenal saw Aubameyang shine on Sunday, with the striker scoring a hat-trick in his side’s 4-2 win over Leeds at the Emirates Stadium. It saw him become the first Gunners player to score a treble since Aaron Ramsey struck against Everton in February 2018. After the game, Arteta lauded his talisman by saying: “I thought he was superb today. “He’s been training really good the last week or so, he was back to normal, he looked really committed in training, really hungry. “And I think today he had a great performance, not just for the goals but the amount of pressure he put on every Leeds defender. “I am delighted for him, he deserved it. We know that’s a big part of our future success is related to Auba being at his best and scoring as many goals as possible. If he is in that type of form, we are going to be closer to winning football matches, that is clear. “We cannot just rely on him, but he is a big piece of our puzzle. And you could see that today that when he is firing he is a difficult player to play against.” Yet, now, The Sun claim Aubameyang is under investigation. The striker recently showed off new ink on his left hand, posing with Spanish tattoo artist Alejandro Nicolas Bernal. The footage was posted online after Aubameyang had been given time off by the club to visit his ill mother in France. Under UK Government regulations, all mobile and static tattoo parlours much remain closed while lockdown is on. But neither the Gabon international or Bernal were wearing face masks in the picture that was posted on the Alxink8 account. Arsenal now want to know if Aubameyang has compromised their secure bubble, especially after supporting him so well in recent weeks. And, if he’s found guilty of falling foul of the rules, then Arteta will be far from happy. Meanwhile, BBC Sport pundit Garth Crooks has named Aubameyang in his team of the week — and praised the veteran for his showing against Leeds. He wrote: “The old adage ‘a happy player is a good player’ seems to work very well with Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang. “The Arsenal captain put family before football by attending to his ill mother, with the issue becoming slightly more complicated as he had to leave the Arsenal coronavirus bubble to do it. “There is no doubt Arsenal suffer without him but the Gunners reaped their reward on his return to action with a wonderful hat-trick by the Gabon star. — The Daily Express.