The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter Renowned visual artist Hermit Muyambo is encouraging upcoming artists to join social media links to sell or buy art works to sustain their livelihoods during the lockdown period. Muyambo said there were a lot of social media platforms which not only help in selling wares, but growing brands. Platforms like DeviantArt, CGSociety, Pinterest, Behance, Instagram, Tumblr and Facebook have been doing well to visual artists globally, while some of the online art stores like Artify, Himalayan Fine Art, ArtLounge, Jerry’s Artarama and Utrecht Art, among others, have all helped artists push sales. Muyambo encouraged artists without websites to start off by joining established links. He said buying and selling art at a shop or market was slowly becoming a thing of the past, as it is being replaced by online stores. He said artists should make their work available to the public via online stores. “Due to the coronavirus pandemic, it is now difficult to work the normal way as before where we used to exhibit, hold shows and even carry out door to door selling to whoever liked the painting or portrait,” he said. “Now, it is all about embracing the virtual platforms available to us and with the current trend, we should be aware of most of the popular international art stores.” Muyambo, who has his art studio in Borrowdale, said he has been selling his products via Instagram, Facebook and his website. “I have been surviving through online platforms, but have decided to go big, hence I have joined some of the international art stores where I share my stuff,” he said. “I even sometimes buy artwork to display in my studio. “You need to know that the beauty of selling products online is that your work is exposed to a national and international audience.” Muyambo said while one may already have a favourite online art supply store, or their own website, it wouldn’t hurt if they tried to experience other options available. “It can be a real task to find a reputable online art supply store carrying the exact supplies you need for your projects, so it’s important that you find either a speciality store front or an online store with the widest selection of supplies,” he said. “Of course, a great store should also feature some of the greatest deals that will save you money.” Muyambo said the lockdown had greatly affected his line of business which has to do more with meeting the people, even painting them live. “Exhibitions and shows now can’t be done, but that does not stop the business,” he said. “I can’t complain at all, also as an artist I am able to work from home or my studio with no much interaction with other people, so it works perfectly on observing social distancing and other measures to avoid contact.” Muyambo, who specialises in portraiture, nature and wildlife artworks said that has been the backbone of his sustainability. He said he was working on a solo exhibition entitled “A 100 plus voices”, aimed at celebrating Zimbabwe’s female musicians, which is scheduled for June-July.