The Herald A MAGNIFICENT fifth-wicket partnership of 157, between Pakistan captain Javeria Khan and Aliya Riaz, powered the visitors to their big 178-run victory over the Lady Chevrons in the first one-day match at Harare Sports Club yesterday. The home side had appeared to hold their own, up to that point, but this fine partnership turned the match and set the Zimbabweans a target they could not challenge. This was backed up by some excellent pace, and spin bowling, which were beyond the experience of the Zimbabwean players. After early-morning rain, the weather cleared remarkably for the start of this match and Zimbabwe won the toss and put Pakistan in to bat. The tourists lost their first wicket with 11 on the board when Mineeba Ali (4) slashed a ball from Nomvelo Sibanda low to backward point, where Ashley Ndiraya picked up a brilliant catch. At 44, Ayesha Zafar (14) was trapped lbw by Esther Mbofana, in the 10th over, and then Omaima Sohail miscalculated and ran herself out for 19, making the score 63 for three. Pakistan were 82 for four when Tasmeen Granger had Nida Dar lbw for 15 in the 19th over, but then a good partnership developed between Khan and Riaz. The Zimbabwe bowling began to wilt as the batsmen flourished. A four through the covers off a wide delivery from Granger took Khan to her fifty off 84 balls. The century partnership was passed and Riaz brought up her own fifty off 69 balls, and the team 200, at the same time, in the 43rd over. Khan made 81, of a partnership worth 157 runs, and the score was now 239 for five in the 48th over, she faced 116 balls and hit eight fours. Riaz, her concentration perhaps broken, was bowled by Nomvelo Sibanda for 74 off the very next delivery; she hit a six and six fours off 87 balls. The innings came to an end for the fine total of 255 for six wickets, with Sidra Nawaz and Fatima Sana both unbeaten with eight. Zimbabwe’s most effective bowler was the opening seamer Sibanda, who surprisingly only bowled eight overs of a possible 10, and took two wickets for 28. Mbofana took two for 42 off nine overs. Ndiraya and Chiedza Dhururu opened the batting for Zimbabwe, and the former got off the mark with a lucky four that was a sharp but definite chance to slip. However, she was soon given out lbw to Diana Baig for five, with the score on 13. Dhururu (8) soon followed, clean-bowled by a beautiful ball from Sana that moved back in and knocked out her middle and off stumps. The Pakistani pace bowlers seemed to have rather more pace, and lift, than the Zimbabwe players have been used to, and they found them difficult to play. The score became 20 for three, as captain Mary-Anne Musonda, fell lbw to Sana without scoring. Meanwhile, Zimbabwe Cricket have clarified circumstances which led to the postponement of Ireland’s tour. “Following a statement released by Cricket Ireland on Monday, concerning the postponement of Ireland’s proposed tour to Zimbabwe for a men’s six-match limited-overs series, ZC wishes to clarify the circumstances surrounding the postponement. “Due to the disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic across the world — not in Zimbabwe in particular — ZC, like other boards elsewhere, has been forced to readjust its domestic and international cricket calendar. “With Zimbabwe scheduled to face Afghanistan men away and Pakistan men at home, between March and April, accommodating the Ireland series in-between the two aforementioned tours, as had been proposed, was unfortunately not going to be feasible. “To confirm, the postponement of the proposed Ireland tour was due to scheduling challenges and had nothing to do with the ‘ongoing Covid-19 situation in the country.’ “The Government — happy with the bio-secure measures that we put in place in order to greatly minimise the risk of Covid-19 spreading among players and officials — has since granted us permission to resume playing international cricket. “That is why ZC is currently hosting the Pakistan women’s team for three one-day matches and three T20I games at Harare Sports Club before the Zimbabwe men’s side embark on a tour to Afghanistan for two Tests and three T20Is.’’ Scores Pakistan Women — 225-6 in 50 overs (Javeria Khan 81, Aliya Riaz 74, Omaima Sohail 29; Nomvelo Sibanda 2/28, Esther Mbofana 2/42, Tasmeen Granger 1/58) Zimbabwe Women — 77 all out in 34.1 overs (Pellagia Mujaji 16, Precious Marange 13, Chiedza Dhururu 8; Sadia Iqbal 2/8, Nida Dar 2/9, Fatima Sana 2/16) Pakistan Women won by 178 runs — Zimcricket