The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo
Silver Screen
Well, like they say television is an invention that permits you to be entertained in your living room by people you wouldn’t have in your home. Without TV, it’s hard to know when one day ends and another begins. So the awards season is upon us again and first up is the longest in history, the Golden Globe Awards. Last week they released their nomination list which received mixed feelings. The 78th annual Golden Globe Awards are scheduled to take place on February 28 and with the Covid-19 global pandemic, the show will be virtual. One thing I noticed this year was that it focused on people of colour, noticeably absent from top race. Good thing the nominations are full of surprises. Let me take this opportunity to salute some of the Zimbabwean actors who are shining, raising the country flag high, especially in Hollywood. We were chuffed when Palm Springs, which features our own Hollywood based actor Tongayi Chirisa, was nominated for the Golden Globe Awards in the Best Picture, Musical or Comedy category. Chirisa, who last month posted on his social media alerting his fans about the second season of Another Life, a series which he stars in, that it is all systems go, was happy about the nomination. In an interview, Chirisa explained his character in the movie and what the award means to him. “It is Palm Springs that has been nominated. I am happy and this means a lot to me. I play the character Jerry who consoles Andy who had a heartbreak and doesn’t know what to do,” he said. “There are also a couple of films that I am working on including something for Netflix called “AnotherLife”. I can’t share other projects names I am working on because of the contractual basis that I have, but believe you me 2021 there is a lot. Chirisa described the response to the film as humbling. “Just like everybody we are also staying at home and observing the rules and regulations of the pandemic,” he said. “Covid-19 is real and I encourage everyone to stay at home if possible.” Last year, Chirisa featured in horror film Antebellum opposite actress and singer Janelle Monae. The 39-year-old Chirisa has worked on multiple projects,including his long-running role on The Jim Gaffigan Show, playing a love interest on The CW’s cult-favorite iZombie, and with Andy Samberg on the Hulu film Palm Springs. As mentioned before, the global pandemic is still here and we should always be careful with how we interact and socialise, besides staying at home. This is when television comes in. I find television very educational and we should always be on the lookout to watch the news. Here is how to stay to date with prime-time news channels and shows on DStv. There’s a lot going on in the news right now. The world is buzzing with new developments around the US Presidential inauguration, the recent surge in COVID-19 cases in Zimbabwe, and updates around the COVID-19 vaccine — to name just a few! It’s only natural to want to keep up with what’s going on, where it’s headed, and how it will impact our daily lives. Armed with a line-up of breaking news channels and in-depth reporting, you’ll soon be caught up on all news-worthy stories around the globe.  BBC World News One of the interesting programmes on BBC is Outside Source, which gathers information from news wires, video feeds, and social media to provide an innovative take on reporting. Tune in as Ros Atkins delivers it like it is,  Weekdays at 21:00 on BBCWorld News, DStv Channel 400.  CNN International Home to top international stories, CNN International covers various topics ranging from business and politics to entertainment and global happenings. Amanpour is certainly a prime-time must-watch as award-winning journalist Christiane Amanpour offers provocative analysis on global stories that matter to you. Stay updated weekdays at 21:00  on CNN International, DStv Channel 401.  Al Jazeera Al Jazeera challenges established narratives by putting people at the centre of the news agenda. The Stream is a great example of their unique approach to broadcasting. It makes use of an online community to seek out unheard voices and provide fresh insights on the most compelling news stories on the Internet today. Catch the next segment every weekday at 21:30  on Al Jazeera, DStvChannel 406.  Africanews This news channel offers viewers across Africa access to pan-African, multilingual news and real-time, quality information. Inspire Africa holds a prime-time spot and focuses on the dynamism of the continent by looking at the success stories of the African populations in the South, East, and West. Tune in as the team seeks out truths to the benefit of the community, weekdays at 21:26  on Africanews, DStvChannel 417.  eNews Channel Africa (eNCAin Southern Africa region) An independent TV and online news brand, it offers 24-hour news services, ensuring you stay up to date on all local and international news. Nightline features respected journalists as they recap and breathe some gravitas into the news with panel discussions and longer interviews. Catch the next segment weekdays at 21:00  on eNews ChannelAfrica, DStv Channel 403.