The Herald Business Reporter The CSR Network Zimbabwe (CSRNZ) has appointed Lucy Marowa to lead its new advisory board. Her appointment is with effective from February 1, 2021. Marowa is currently the chief executive officer of the National Blood Service Zimbabwe (NBSZ). “She has shown exemplary leadership in executing her responsibilities at NBSZ, which makes her the best candidate to steer the ship,” said CSRNZ. With regards to other appointees to the new board, Wellington Mapedzamombe from Invictus Securities and Marjorie Mutemererwa who is the group head of public relations and communications at Seed-Co Limited will both serve as vice chairpersons. Willard Razawo — the body’s executive director — will serve as the new board’s executive secretary. Legal expert Panashe Bwoni who will serve on the board as the legal advisor. Other appointments include: Chido Chizondo from FC Platinum Holdings, Tsungai Manyeza from Lafarge, Kudzai Mauwa from Econet, Michael Munawa from Clean City, Chengetai Mujakachi from Vivo Energy, Tabeth Melusi from National Foods and Emily Nemapare from First Capital Bank. The diversity of skills in the new board is expected to drive the organisation into the future as we drive the mandate of responsible and sustainable business across the country. Said Mr Razawo: “This new board will measure up to our expectations that feed into CSRNZ’s objective to increase the number of enterprises that recognise and use social responsibility to shape their business strategies in accordance with the principle of sustainable development because socially and environmentally proactive business practices can bring enterprises advantages in the national and international arena. “This action plan is setting the stage for all stakeholders to formulate societal aims in a dialogue to ensure conditions that make corporate social responsibility attractive to enterprises and society.” The CSRNZ is a professional multi-stakeholder organisation established in Zimbabwe in 2016 with the aim to advance the principles and practices of Corporate Social Responsibility within the country. “The CSRNZ does not only provides advice to progressive multinational and indigenous companies but also helps smaller enterprises navigate and understand CSR,” said Mr Razawo. “We have started to assist companies to develop, implement and evaluate their CSR projects as well as assisting them in developing their organisational CSR policies.”