The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter
DINDINGWE won the rescheduled Betty Prosser Fillies Classic, first leg of Zimbabwe’s Triple Tiara, at Borrowdale Park yesterday afternoon. Last Wednesday the scheduled Borrowdale Park race meeting was postponed due to heavy rain and it was carried forward to yesterday when it was successfully held with the same race card featuring the Fillies Classic. The Mashonaland Turf Club announced last week that they had postponed the race. “Mashonaland Turf Club has postponed tomorrow’s (Wednesday) race meeting. The course was inspected at 9pm this evening after heavy rain. In excess of 50mm has been recorded, it is still raining, and more rain is forecast,” they said. Bred by Ndoro Stud, the daughter of Futura has a host of owners headed by the Shepherd family, and this was her fourth win from five starts. The filly is from the Swanson yard and Apprentice Rodgers Satombo had the ride. The runner now boosts of four wins including the Champion Juvenile Stakes and the Breeders Fillies Mile. Coming in as the favourite Dindigwe was tipped to be worry of stable mate True Beauty but the real challenge came from Mazikeen of the Gokhan Terzi stable. The Fillies Classic provided some anxious moments when, 300m from the line, frontrunner Mazikeen seemed to be determined to hold off Dindingwe, but the favourite persevered and drew away to win comfortably. The Swanson stable, and Satombo, had a great afternoon, winning four of the seven races on the card. Mazikeen by Twice Over (Great Britain) out of a Black Minnaloushe (USA) mare came into yesterday’s race having won her first start over 1000m in February last year, and since then has been consistently placed from 1200m to 1600m. Her last outing was in the Guineas Trial a month ago and had partner Calvin Harbib on the irons. On third place was another Kirk Swanson runner True Beauty winner of three of her seven starts, including the 1200m Jacaranda Free Handicap and the 1600m Tote Free Handicap, coming into the race. With veteran Norbert Takawira on board, True Beauty by Skitt Skizzle out of a Silvano (Germany) mare saw the tough going as Obscure from the Bridget Stidolph stable partnered Teaque Gould to complete the places.