The Herald ROME. — AC Milan take their Italian Serie A title push to Rome tomorrow looking to keep touch with leaders Inter in a top-four clash which could boost champions Juventus’s hopes of a 10th consecutive crown. Stefano Pioli’s Milan are coming off back-to-back defeats and trail four points behind Inter who can hammer home their advantage against 11th-placed Genoa. Roma in fourth, five points behind Milan, were held to a goalless draw last time out against Benevento. Both Roma and Milan drew 3-3 in the reverse fixture. It’s a clash between a Roma side who have collected the most league points at home this season with 30, and a Milan team that boasts the best away record — picking up 28 points on their travels. “It will be a very important match against a great team that is doing well,” said Roma coach Paulo Fonseca. The two teams advanced to the Europa League last 16 on Thursday, Roma easing past Portuguese side Braga 5-1 on aggregate, with Milan beating Red Star Belgrade on away goals after their tie finished 3-3. Milan have stuttered in the new year, as they juggle league and Europa League commitments, and desperately want to avoid losing a fifth top-flight match in the first two months. Inter host a resurgent Genoa, who have powered back into mid-table with a run of seven games without defeat under new coach Davide Ballardini. Antonio Conte’s side are without any European football and have won four games in a row as they target a first league title since 2010. In third, Juventus — eight points off top spot with a game in hand — face a tricky task at ninth-placed Hellas Verona. Cristiano Ronaldo has rediscovered his form, scoring three goals in as many games league appearances after failing to find the net in the previous three. Atalanta travel to Sampdoria after their home Champions League defeat by Real Madrid, with striker Duvan Zapata in doubt after picking up a muscular problem against the Spaniards. Italian Serie A Fixtures Today: Spezia v Parma (4pm); Bologna v Lazio (7pm); Hellas Verona v Juventus (9:45pm). Tomorrow: Sampdoria v Atalanta (1:30pm); Udinese v Fiorentina (4pm); Crotone v Cagliari (4pm); Internazionale v Genoa (4pm); Napoli v Benevento (7pm); Roma v Milan (9:45pm). — AFP