The Herald Celebrities have paid tribute to Captain Sir Tom Moore who has died aged 100 amid a battle with Covid-19 and pneumonia. His family announced his death on social media, sharing a picture of Sir Tom and the message ‘1920 – 2021’. In a statement, his daughters Hanna Ingram-Moore and Lucy Teixeira said: ‘Whilst he’d been in so many hearts for just a short time, he was an incredible father and grandfather, and he will stay alive in our hearts forever.’ Sir Tom, who served in WW2, rose to prominence because of his positive attitude and determination to complete a challenge of walking 100 laps around his garden before he turned 100 last April. He initially set out to raise just £1,000 to support the health service but his mission went international and praise and donations poured in, taking his final total to £32.7 million. Sir Tom had been admitted to hospital on January 31 after being treated for pneumonia over the last few weeks. Good Morning Britain host Piers Morgan said: ‘RIP Captain Sir Tom Moore, 100. A magnificent man. A national hero. ‘In our darkest hour since WW2, he rallied Britain with his resilience, courage and optimism. ‘Let us all heed his mantra in our own lives: “Tomorrow will be a good day.” Thank you, Tom.’ BBC Breakfast host Naga Munchetty simply tweeted an emoji of a broken heart while co-star Dan Walker penned: ‘How sad to hear about Captain Sir Tom Moore. ‘He did so much to inspire us all last year & achieved so much in his 100th year. He raised millions of pounds, lifted millions of spirits and now millions will miss his wisdom & his smile. My deepest condolences to his loved ones.’ Singer Katherine Jenkins said: ‘Tomorrow will be a good day because of how brightly you shone in all our lives. Thank you for bringing us hope and strength. An angel amongst the angels. RIP Captain Sir Tom.’ David Beckham shared a video of the moment he met Sir Tom and his family, adding the tribute: ‘Today we have lost a true hero, Captain Sir Tom Moore. What he achieved for our NHS will never be forgotten. Tom, you were truly the very best of British. ‘When our country and our world was struggling you gave us hope, put a smile on our faces and made us believe that tomorrow would be a good day. Rest in Peace Sir Tom.’ TV presenters Ant McPartlin and Dec Donnelly said from their joint Twitter account: ‘Captain Sir Tom Moore. What a hero. You were a shining beacon of hope and an inspiration to us all when we needed it most. We thank you and salute you. Rest In Peace Sir.’ Journalist Kate Silverton tweeted: ‘Covid-19: Captain Sir Tom Moore dies with coronavirus – oh rest well Sir Tom…. we salute you …thoughts and love to your family – what wonderful memories to celebrate a life truly lived & to the end.’ Harry Potter actor Oliver Phelps said: ‘RIP Sir Captain Tom Moore. A true best of British.’ The Great British Bake Off winner Candice Brown said on Twitter: ‘Thank you for everything. You will forever be our hero.’ Broadcaster Victoria Derbyshire sent her support to his family and said: ‘Thank you Sir for everything you did for our country. You will never, ever be forgotten ‘To Hannah and your whole family – we were privileged to be able to get to know your father a little. Thank you. What an incredible man. Sending so much love and strength to you.’ Singer Yungblud shared his own tribute, posting on Twitter: ‘A true walking example of extraordinary selflessness dedicating his whole life to help others. an incredible human. rest in peace captain tom. “tomorrow will be a good day.” Good Morning Britain presenter Charlotte Hawkins said in tribute: ‘Oh no… such sad news that @captaintommoore has died. ‘Such an inspirational man who raised a phenomenal amount of money for the NHS. He was such a beacon of hope during a dark time & it seems such a blow to lose him now.’ Former Strictly Come Dancing star James Jordan said: ‘RIP Sir Captain Tom  You will always be in our hearts for what you did for the people of this country. We salute you.’ TV presenter Steph McGovern said: ‘Rest in peace Captain Tom’ while Loose Women star Denise Welch said: ‘Capt Tom. What a legend. What a legacy.’ Singer Michael Ball, who recorded a charity single with Sir Tom that reached number one, wrote on Twitter: ‘Rest in peace @captaintommoore. A wonderful life so well lived and a hero and fighter to the very end. ‘So very very sad. Love and prayers for @Hannah Connolly_I_M and all the family.’ Actor John Challis also paid tribute: ‘My sincere condolences to the family of Sir Tom Moore. ‘A remarkable man who managed to cram in as much action in the last two years than most of us do in a lifetime! Rest in peace old soldier.’ Sir Tom was knighted by the Queen during a unique open-air ceremony at Windsor Castle in summer 2020 in acknowledgement of his efforts. The millions of pounds raised by Sir Tom funded a range of projects providing practical and emotional help to NHS staff and volunteers. NHS Charities Together said health service charities have used some of the money to assist those experiencing bereavement due to Covid-19. – metrocouk