The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Boxing Federation and Shooting Sports Federation are the latest sporting disciplines to get clearance from the Government to travel outside the country for specific tournaments. Boxing got clearance to travel to Tanzania for the East African Olympic trial, which will be held from this Sunday up to March 4. Approval was also granted for shooting to convene camp at Mashonaland Gun Club, before they travel to South Africa for the Pan African Sporting COMPAK sporting championships. The tournament will be held from March 16 to 20. Some associations such as ZIFA have applied for the resumption of their activities, including local football, but they are yet to be granted permission. Only FC Platinum were given the greenlight to prepare and take part in the CAF Champions League and Confederation Cup. The Warriors have upcoming AFCON qualifiers next month in Botswana and at home against Zambia. They have been cleared to train, travel and host the crunch ties. Yesterday, Sports Commission acting director general, Sebastian Garikai, could not be drawn to comment on the status of ZIFA’s application. Last week, the Sports Commission maintained the application was still under consideration. According to SRC, the template used, in the approval of the activities, is as follows: “That, for all provisional approvals, during the pandemic (training and competition), there must be an airtight bubble operational environment through mandatory testing of all athletes and officials. Production of Covid-19 certificates, 48 hours prior to entering camp and 48 hours before leaving camp or external travel. “That, for all outgoing tours, consideration must be made to the host country’s Covid-19 situation and protocols put in place to combat the pandemic, including but not limited to, preparedness to manage critical Covid-19 cases, should they arise. “That, all approvals are subject to the Government’s policy directions, in respect of Covid-19 at the time of the event, as the case maybe, notwithstanding any prior approval granted.’’ So far, the Sports Commission have given the greenlight for the golf team to take part in the South African Swing golf tournament. Zimbabwe Cricket, who have been a model code in these trying times, were one of the first associations to get a nod to host training sessions and international games. Their women’s cricket national team hosted Pakistan earlier this month before the limited overs series was shortly abruptly. Currently, the men’s cricket team are in Abu Dhabi for matches against Afghanistan next month. The Zimbabwe National Paralympic Committee, who sent a team that won seven medals in Dubai, the Zimbabwe Aquatic Union and Tennis Zimbabwe were also granted permission. Mashonaland Turf Club were given permission to have horse racing resume at Borrowdale Park for the period of February to April. The Hockey Association of Zimbabwe were also granted approval to host the Central South Africa tournament in May. Botswana, Malawi, Zambia, Mauritius, Namibia and Eswatini, are expected to participate. Sports Minister, Kirsty Coventry, last week said although her heart bleeds for local athletes, safety remains her key priority. “I want to see sport resume, as quickly as we can, based on the fact that we would be able to ensure the health, and safety of our athletes, that is my top priority. “Right now, we are still, as a nation, in Level Four, for another two weeks, and we would be able to assess, during these two weeks, where we may, or not, think we will be going. “We have already, even during this lockdown, been given special permission, for some athletes to train, or to continue to train. “And, that is because we have had very good work, coming from the national associations, who have gone out of their way to properly protect their athletes. “They have put them in bubbles, they have ensured testing, they have ensured that athletes are not misbehaving and going out and doing whatever. “If a national association can provide all of those protocols to us, and ensure that they will be followed, obviously, as our numbers come down, and hopefully, as we drop out of Level Four, potentially to Level Three or Level Two, in the next few months, we will then be more than willing to work with those national associations to ensure that the players are back on the field.’’