The Herald Tadious Manyepo
Sports Reporter
CHAWIRA Football Academy falls far short of an academy title. And they acknowledge it. Neither are they registered with ZIFA nor do they have the structures fitting for a fully-fledged football academy. Yet, they are a rare football development programme. The products they have dished to the football market make a mockery, not only of their stature, but their location too. The academy is situated in the peripheries of Checheche Growth Point, Chipinge, in the eastern part of the country. It has been in existence since 1996. This is the project which nurtured former Warriors, Chapungu and Dynamos striker Philip Marufu. The speedy striker was plucked from Chawira by the Airforce of Zimbabwe, who had agreed to partner with the academy. He was enrolled into this organisation and eventually made the cut at Chapungu where he made a name for himself. Former Dynamos defender, Mathew Mahala, also cut his football teeth at this project. This year, their exceptional work came to the fore once again, over a week ago, when two of their products, Perfect Chikwende and Luke Musikiri, made defining moves. Chikwende, who was noticed by the Chawira Academy technical department when he arrived in Checheche while visiting a relative, has signed for Tanzania giants SC Simba. He signed from FC Platinum, after a stint with Bulawayo Chiefs, where he arrived after a stint at a lower division prisons team. Teenager Musikiri is now on the books of Dynamos. Several other players, who honed their skills at this nursery, are playing in different lower leagues in the country. Unlike other amateur junior teams in the country who make noise, demanding some development fees whenever their products make a transfer, Chawira Academy owner Sailas Chawira, says it’s not part of their plans to cry out for money. Chawira is a Highlanders fan. “One thing we don’t want to make noise about is the transfer of players,’’ he said. “We call ourselves an academy, yes, but we know that we have to register with the relevant authorities, first, to start speaking about something along those lines. “Our desire, together with my wife, right from the time we established this academy, is to see children, from disadvantaged communities like ours, realise their dreams. “We have done this, out of passion, and we will continue working hard to help the youngsters. “It feels good to see players, who passed through your hands, doing well in First Division football or in the Premiership.’’ His satisfaction comes from seeing his products doing well. “When others are snapped up by teams, from outside the country, then we know we are doing something right,’’ said Chawira. “But, we are not an academy which demands anything from the players who would have made it. “We are very happy just to see them do well in their career and life, that’s all. We feel we have got a duty to help the youngsters attain their career dreams. “If that happens then we are happy.” Chawira said his academy is now working on putting all the modalities in place so that they can register with ZIFA. “We certainly have to register with ZIFA. We are not well-resourced and we are appealing to individuals and corporates to help us register with the authorities. “For the time being, we will continue training the kids and help them achieve their dreams. That’s what we are here for. “When we see them grow, and become stars of the game ,then we become happy.” The academy’s coaches, Samson Sithole and Absolom Mukono, are both holders of a ZIFA Level 2 Certificate. Chawira said the academy will help them further their expertise when CAF courses resume. Chawira Academy also have a girls’ soccer wing, which has produced a number of players, who now play in the top-flight league. They incude Edline Mutumbani, who plays for Blue Swallows and the Mighty Warriors. “We don’t want to beat the drum and say here we are. Like I said, we only want to help youngsters achieve their dreams, that’s all.” Now and again, Chawira sponsors some schools’ tournaments, around Checheche, and donates football kits. Now, with the help of Ngezi Platinum Stars coach Rodwell Dhlakama, who gives them some technical advice, Chawira feels once his academy gets registered, they will reap their rewards.