The Herald Sports Reporter
FOR upcoming female junior motocross sensation, Tadiwanashe Nyamupfukudza, school work is as much important as her sporting career. She clocked five points in the ZIMSEC Grade Seven results that were released last week. Tadiwanashe, who was at the Admiral Tait Primary School, is happy she has been able to juggle well with her books and her passion in sport. This comes as the ZIMSEC confirmed that female candidates outperformed their male counterparts in the 2020 examinations. According to ZIMSEC, the pass rate for girls was almost five percent higher than boys. Tadiwanashe’s father and trainer, Simba Nyamupfukudza, yesterday said the teenager was in seventh heaven, after her latest achievements. Tadiwanashe is 13-year-old girl with exceptional talent in motocross riding. She is also a fine hockey player and a social media influencer for the upliftment of girls. “She is extremely overjoyed. The good thing about Tadiwanashe is that she always put her whole heart in everything that she does. “Motocross is something that runs in her veins. She has always been doing well in competitions. “So, we feared that she might not get it right with her school work. But she has done it. “The year 2020 was a difficult one for many scholars. She is happy. We have placed her application for a Form One place online and we are waiting for the response,” said Nyamupfukudza. Tadiwanashe missed last year’s Summer Series as she was busy with her Grade Seven examinations, when the event was held at the Donnybrook Race Course in December. She will be competing in the 85CC class (big wheel) when she returns after the calendar for 2020 was wiped away by the coronavirus pandemic. “The whole of last year, there were no races because of the pandemic. “The Summer Series is the only event that managed to take place but she was busy with her examinations during that time. “So, we expect her to return to the track this year. “However, the training grounds are still closed. We have had to improvise by embarking on bush riding in the nearby farms whenever we get the chance. “The 2021 calendar is yet to be released but the big event this year will be the FIM Africa Motocross Championships in South Africa. “Last year it was supposed to be held in Uganda but was cancelled because of the pandemic. So we will keep giving her all the necessary support and encouragement,” said Nyamupfukudza. Touted as the next best thing after Tanya Muzinda, in the local motocross circles, 13-year-old Tadiwanashe has slowly been rising up the ladder while racing with boys at Donnybrook Raceway track in Harare. “Ever since I was a little girl, I’ve always shown interest in motorbikes,” said Nyamupfukudza in her biography. “My father was employed by a motorcycle company so motorbikes have been a part of my life. “At the age of seven, I could ride and after noting my passion, my father committed to help me to achieve my dreams. I’m not afraid of the big toys! “Since then, my interest in motocross has grown big to the extent that I am participating in local tournaments at a young age. “I believe that I have the potential to be a sensation in the motorsport arena of Zimbabwe and Africa at large. “I want to be an inspiring figure with a strong ambition to change the world and encourage all the girls out there that nothing is impossible.”