The Herald Craig Twist
Fashion Correspondent
Valentine is coming and it is tomorrow. We hope the lovebirds are prepared, and by the way you can also gift someone you cherish and love, it can be a father or mother. The best Valentine for now with the current situation is to be together, stay home, stay safe. Those who can afford those expensive flowers, jewellery, cakes and clothes among others, go ahead, while those can afford little things, do not be left out. Remember it is the thought that counts. So, this week I am focusing on some of the little things that make us look older and we should get rid of them for the fashion statements to work well. Age is something that we all can’t run away from, that’s fate, but what’s not fate is how old we should look. In as much as we can embrace ourselves getting old and growing grey hair, to which in our culture is equated with wisdom, being called old is not flattering at all. What I am trying to achieve from this article is to make you look five to 10 years younger than you are. When you are 50, but dress and look 19, it makes you look like you are hanging by the straw to your youth and you don’t want to let go. There is no way your hair is going to stay pitch black when you are in your late 40s upwards unless you are that rare breed of one in a million guys who gets to their 50s and 60s with full black hair in most parts, if not, embrace that salt and pepper hair and don’t dye it because it will look so obvious that you don’t want to grow. The best alternative is to keep a clean shave, remove all the hair and beard and look fresh clean and way younger in a decent way. The older you get the more subtle you should be. However, wearing massively graphied clothes exposes you to appearing as if you are fighting so hard to look like a teen or cooler. Same goes with brands, only the younger guys should show that they are rocking a Ralph Lauren t-shirt by buying the one with the biggest logo right in front, but if you are in your late 40s, 50s, less is more. You can still buy your RL obviously because the quality is great, the fitting is perfect and you love the brand in general, but pick the ones with the most subtle logo and refrain from the obvious ones. Everyone have their perfect fit. Yes, older guys develop a bit more flesh in certain parts of the body, over time, but wearing baggy clothes to conceal that makes the situation even worse. Baggy jeans, for example, will not make you look younger but a wanna-be young. Baggy suits insinuates that you are in the wrong era and you actually bought your suit decades ago when baggy was trendy, the Steve Harvey kind of suits. On the flip side, tight fitting clothes deliver the same message, however, wearing what perfectly fits you like straight cut instead of baggy/skinny jeans or tailored/regular shirts instead of slim fits or oversize shirts, make you look modern and mature, not young not old. Here is the thing, wearing sweat clothes like joggers, hoodies and tennis shoes all the time is fine if you are younger, but for the older guys, again, it makes you look like you are trying too hard to relive your youth days, especially wearing sportswear when you are not in the gym or engaging in any sporting activity whatsoever. Remember, the goal is to look five to 10 years younger not a 60-year-old looking 23. The alternative to joggers is light weight chinos or linen trousers, for sneakers/trainers/tennis shoes you can try Loafers, boat shoes or driving shoes. Instead of hoodies try cardigans, pullovers, biker or bomber Its good and very advisable to be on the look out for trends, no doubt. Nomatter your age, you should be able to know what’s in style and what’s not but with that being said, don’t chase trends but rather incorporate a bit of them into your style. Wearing trendy clothes makes you look like you are having a mid-life crisis. This brings back the point of wearing flashy, trendy labels with massive logos on like you are taking us back to your Wu-Tang hip-hop days when you were still in the game, nope, let go. If you are older, try by all means to stay classy and timeless all the while. Nomatter how mature you look or how stylish you are, you need to do away with the nose and ear hair. Nothing makes you look older than hair sticking out of your nose and ears. It just doesn’t show how old you are, but its also distracting. Whenever you are talking to they definitely can’t resist looking at the hair sticking out of your nose and ears. Okay, we know that you love your football and you want everyone to know you are a Man Utd fan, the problem comes when you are going shopping and you wear it, worse off tuck it in. We all know the football Jersey reminds you of your golden days when you played for Tanganda in 1989, but to be honest, I suggest you stick to wearing your soccer jersey on game days only or leave it for the younger, active guys. Most of us get so attached to items that remind us of the good old days so much that we don’t want to let them go, which is understandable, it could be of sentimental value or you generally like the item regardless. If there is one item you should get rid of without hesitation is a square toed shoe. Trust me, this one will never be back in style, well at least not in our lifetime again. Wearing a square toed shoe makes everyone around you wonder how old you must be because of your taste and style. We get it, jewellery is a status symbol, it shows the world how wealthy you are, but if you are older but still wear jewellery like you are about to shoot a hip-hop video, that stuff doesn’t make you look cool, but old. Like we said before, the older you get, the more subtle and minimalistic you should be, meaning the only jewellery you should wear is just your wedding ring, a watch and maybe a one tiny and decent looking necklace. The rest of your jewellery is better kept in a safe or at the pawn brokers. Wearing a strong scented perfume does not make you seem younger, but actually does the opposite for you. For you to appear slightly younger than you are, less is more. Pick perfumes that are not overpowering, but nice and subtle, for example, my favourite one Tom Ford Oud rather than LYNX or anything like that.