The Herald ZIMBABWE international striker Khama Billiat is still attracting interest from a number of football clubs abroad. According to top South African football magazine, Laduma, though sources have informed them that Billiat prefers to stay in South Africa where is is currently on the books of that country’s giants Kaizer Chiefs, that’s not kept the persistent interest in his signature at bay! With his Kaizer Chiefs contract coming to an end on June 30, it is understood Egyptian giants Al Ahly are among the sides on the continent keen on his services for a possible reunion with Pitso Mosimane, his former coach at Mamelodi Sundowns. Other two Egyptian sides Zamalek and Pyramids have also been linked with the Zimbabwean attacker. Amakhosi do have an option to extend Biliat’s stay at Naturena for another 12 months and sources at the club have suggested Chiefs will exercise it. It makes sense – if they don’t then the player can walk away for free. But if they do, Chiefs can decide to sell him for a lucrative transfer fee. Al Ahly, who have always been serious admirers of the player and very nearly made a breakthrough in signing him back in 2016, have the financial muscle to purchase him outright and potentially offer him more than what he earns at Chiefs. Reports have placed Billiat as the highest paid Amakhosi player with a package of around R8-million per annum (possibly more with bonuses). If Al Ahly can buy players for R80-million from the English Premier League, can they not recruit from the continent for even less?
The stumbling block at the moment, however, could be Billiat’s injury and the fact that he is more settled in the South African Premier Soccer League. Billiat (30) suffered a cracked leg bone earlier last month which has ruled him out for a minimum eight weeks and all but ruling out any possible move in this current transfer window. He has been criticised for his output since joining Chiefs as he is not scoring or contributing enough, although he is still a regular.
It’s expected then that his future will be settled in the coming months – when he will be fully fit, but Amakhosi hold all the cards. – Sports Reporter/Laduma