The Herald Joseph Madzimure Senior Reporter PRESIDENT Mnangagwa has described the late Cde Moses Griffiths Mpofu, who will be buried tomorrow at the National Heroes Acre, as a patriotic and courageous Zimbabwean whose life should inspire the nation. Cde Mpofu, who was unanimously declared a national hero by the Politburo on Wednesday, was a former deputy commissioner general in the police service and participated in the country’s liberation struggle. He will be buried in accordance with Covid-19 regulations at a funeral that will be presided by President Mnangagwa. In his condolence message, President Mnangagwa said the late national hero will be fondly remembered for his virtues of courage, fortitude, patriotism, and integrity which he amply demonstrated before and after Independence as a senior police officer of the Zimbabwe Republic Police. “The death last week of Retired Deputy Commissioner of the ZRP Cde Moses Griffiths Mpofu, has robbed our nation of yet another gallant son of the soil, a former freedom fighter and a strong revolutionary cadre. “While we knew that Deputy Commissioner Mpofu had not been well for some time, to the extent that he had to be hospitalised, our prayerful expectations were for his speedy recovery “Therefore, his untimely death came as a great shock to those of us who had lived, fought and worked alongside him both before and after our country’s independence.” The President said the death of Cde Mpofu has left a deep wound. “His passing on has left a deep wound in our hearts that will be difficult to heal. “We shall remember him for his strong virtues of courage, fortitude, patriotism, and integrity which he amply demonstrated before and after Independence as a senior police officer of the Zimbabwe Republic Police. On behalf of Zanu PF, Government, my family, and indeed on my behalf, I wish to express my deepest condolences to the Mpofu family, especially to his wife, Sibonile, and the children who have lost a dear husband, father and counsellor. “May they be comforted from the fact that we are together during this hour of deep grief. May his dear soul rest in eternal peace.” The late national hero died on Friday last week at the United Bulawayo Hospitals after a long illness. He was 66. His former workmates in the police force described him as an astute and disciplined officer. He excelled in his career and rose through the ranks to Deputy Commissioner in 1999, a rank which he held until his retirement in December 2003. Cde Mpofu went to Nsezi Primary School in Tsholotsho before completing his secondary education at Tegwani High School in 1974. A veteran of the liberation struggle, Cde Mpofu crossed the border into Zambia under the ZIPRA banner in 1975 and received military training at Mwembeshi and later Mgagao and Morogoro in Tanzania. After training, he was deployed in Zambia under the ZAPU Intelligence Wing, National Security Order, a counter-intelligence agency against Rhodesian forces. Deputy Commissioner Mpofu underwent several police command-related courses between 1978 and 1979 at Novocherkassk Advanced Police Academy under the then Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR). After Independence, Cde Mpofu joined the police service in 1981 as a patrol officer and was posted to Mphoengs after training. He served at various police stations countrywide including Mayobodo, Fort Rixon, Esigodini, Gwanda, Bulawayo Central and Harare Province.