The Herald Kundai Laverna Sharamba
Midlands State University
TODAY’S young adults have proved they are mature enough and are full of understanding. They complied with the lockdown restrictions despite their views on Valentine’s Day. This is not to say they all did this because young adults like smooching and cuddling and dating for the thrill of physical connection. So, most of them sacrificed their fantasies for their well-being and that of the country at large. The fact that this year’s Valentine’s Day was celebrated under lockdown was no hindrance to exchanging gifts and displays of affection. Those that could, went online to express their love. Some claimed that this wasn’t what they expected, but managed through. Sadly for some, this led to breaking up because of the enforced distance. Others have separated until the storm caused by the pandemic has calmed down. There were others who played hide and seek with the law enforcement agencies in order to experience the Valentine’s Day they are accustomed to. If the Government had not instituted stringent lockdown measures, we would have witnessed an even steeper rise in the number of Covid-19-positive cases and fatalities. So, it was indeed a different Valentine’s Day. Not all were happy about it, but the bottom line is that the country is safe. Big up to the young adults! ****** Magret Mandava Midlands State University The past year and the first two months of 2021have not been easy on everyone as a result of the nation-wide lockdown, owing to the coronavirus pandemic. At the beginning of the year, the Government took a decision to prolong the lockdown, basing on the steep increase in the number of new cases and the death toll. But the new lockdown measures can turn out to be a blessing or a curse for some people. It is a blessing for some people who had no time to always be with their children as they needed to be at work. Now, because of the lockdown, they have more time to be with their families. The curse arising from the lockdown is because of the increase in cases of Gender-Based Violence (GBV) as well as exposure of issues of infidelity. Unlike during the pre-lockdown era, people would go and visit friends or go out and engage in various activities, which meant there was just not sufficient time to investigate activities of one’s partner, especially on social media platforms. This time they more time to do that and when people are cornered or frustrated, they tend to resort to violence. ****** Chantel Takudzwa Zamburika Midlands State University When a year begins with so many problems such as happened to 2021, people tend to panic and worry not knowing what to do. Many will be stressed out financially, especially in the first months of the year and this condition is referred to as the “January disease”. This year tends to be different as it is associated with so many problems. A year where many are losing their lives due to Covid-19, which dates back to early last year. While some people have succumbed to it, many are confused and now live in fear. Schools have been closed because of the pandemic or as a result of natural phenomena such as Cyclones Idai, Chalane and Eloise. Many people are stressed out, especially as they do not know what will happen next. The anxiety levels, in some cases have led to tension with the resultant effect being domestic violence. There are reports of increased child abuse as a result of frustrations on the part of parents and the children because of all being confined home all the time. Many people are resorting to all kinds of things in order to escape from their problems. Some, however, have sought to use the interim to occupy themselves productively by embarking on small businesses, which are helping financially. Others have found time to spend with their families, realising the strengths and weaknesses of their children. Yet others are spending their time involved in peri-urban agriculture. Part of the challenge for our media is to help the nation understand the hurdles being faced and subsequent solutions to the numerous problems. ****** Whesly Handiseni & Branton Matondo Midlands State University THE uncertainty of hope continues to surge as the Covid-19 lockdown reached its second phase which has been deadly, compared to the first phase. The second lockdown is a necessary way to fight the global pandemic, which is now claiming twice the number of victims than last year. Measures implemented during this year’s lockdown are not too different from those that were instituted last year. Essential service providers such as supermarkets, hospitals, clinics, pharmacies, banks, food outlets and fuel stations continue to enjoy the privilege of operating during this lockdown but strict measures were put in place. Bars, bottles stores, restaurants, churches and schools are closed to avoid people crowding. Closure of schools was to facilitate safety of school children and staff. Public transport registered under government like the Zimbabwe United Passengers Company (ZUPCO) buses and commuter buses were only allowed to operate while the mushika-shika and kombis were banned as was the case under the first lockdown. The idea was to avoid crowds in the central business districts of all the cities in the country. This has also been implemented under the second lockdown. Public gatherings have been banned as they can escalate the spread of Covid-19. While under the first lockdown not more than 50 people were allowed to attend a funeral service, this time not more than 30 people can attend a funeral. Church gatherings are totally banned. ****** Blessing Siyakurima and John Ndlovu Midlands State University A lot has happened since last year and many youths have not gotten a glimpse of normalcy at their learning institutions. The onset of the pandemic has brought the collapse and closures of some businesses. As far as the education system is concerned, there is a lot of transformation that has taken place. The first blow from the pandemic occurred in the early March of 2020 which saw a temporary stoppage of the learning institutions. This has brought about its own challenges such as failure on the part of students to secure funds for accessing online facilities. There was a twin evil to this — scarcity of financial resources and a spike in the price of data bundles. There has been widespread concern over the rapid transition to online education from the traditional face-to-face physical lessons. Often cited, were problems in accessing online educational lessons coupled with inadequate knowledge of how to navigate this new terrain. Students have also faced difficulties in meeting deadlines for submitting assignments due to myriad problems around issues of network access and internet connectivity or lack of adequate funds for data, when needed.