The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor ZIMBABWE’S junior motocross champion, Emmanuel Bako, on Saturday fared well in the opening round of the seven-round 2021 South Africa National Championship series. Mounting a brand new KTM 2021 85 bike, the 14-year-old biker made his presence felt, in this one-day event at Terra Topia, just outside Johannesburg. He took a credible third place finish in the 85cc Pro Mini Class much to the delight of his father and manager, Brighton. “It was good seeing him on the podium, considering that he came to race after having no practice whatsoever back home in Zimbabwe as the tracks there are closed due to Covid-19 restrictions,’’ Brighton said from Johannesburg. “This was the first national event of the year in South Africa and it was good to watch Emmanuel fighting with the best South African Pro Mini riders under some very hot conditions here at Terra Topia. “It was good to see him forcing, and fighting, to get a place in the top three and we can see he is going to have a good year, riding in the South African National Championship series, thanks to his sponsors Prolific Boreholes, Better Brands Jewellery and Fuchs Silkolene Zimbabwe.” Emmanuel managed to stay on his two wheels in the first heat after he initially got stuck at the gates but managed to fight from last to third place. In Heat Two, the young Zimbabwean rider didn’t get a good start again, as he found himself in fifth place, before he showed some great resistance as he lifted his game up to come home in third place. He got both podiums, for the day, and ended up sitting on 40 points, behind the day’s overall winner Lucca Mynhardt of South Africa. Another South African junior rider, Neil van der Vyver, came second, one place ahead of Emmanuel, who came third in the Pro Mini Class, which had a strong field of 21 riders. Emmanuel was satisfied with his third place finish. “I didn’t have a good start in both heats and was forced to dig deep to be among the top three. I really wanted to take the first step on the podium, so I’m a little bit sad. “Hopefully, next time I can get it right in the second round at Rover in Port Elizabeth in April,” Emmanuel. By coming third, in the Pro Mini Class, Emmanuel stole the limelight from fellow young Zimbabwean dirt bike rider, Riley Rocher, who took part in the 65cc Class where he finished in 17th place in this class which also had a strong field of 28 riders. This was not bad at all for Rocher, considering he didn’t train as well back home in Zimbabwe, but he managed to fly to Johannesburg at the weekend to represent his country in the opening round of the 2021 South African National Motocross Championship series. Emmanuel and Rocher are expected to take part in the second round of the South African Nationals at Rover in Port Elizabeth on April 3, followed by Welkom on May 22, and back to Gauteng for the July 3 round at the brand new Legends motocross track. Then it’s down to Zone 7 in Cape Town on September 18, Bloemfontein on October 23, and the November 20 finale in Pietermaritzburg.