The Herald Phillip Zulu in LEEDS, England THE emergence of young Zimbabwean goalkeeper, Martin “Neuer’’ Mapisa, in the Spanish football league of Segunda B, is a huge development for our national game. Recent performances by ‘’Neuer,’’ against Racing Ferrol and Pontevedra, have propelled Zamora FC into second position, with a game in hand. Zamora FC are just three points behind Unionistas FC, who have played 13 games and accumulated 25 points, leading this Segunda B division. Mapisa has been in the thick of things, making great saves that are helping to stabilise the team as they push for promotion into the next division, which is very competitive. This is the league of the big boys like Barcelona, Real Madrid and Atletico Madrid. This a dream come true for the ‘keeper from Glen Norah, where the foundation for talent identification, and nurturing, was made by the legendary junior coach, the late Alois Patsika. Martin shares the same streets with some of the greatest names in Zimbabwean football, brothers Crispen and Tobias Sibanda,  Kimathi Dhlamini, Never Chakawata, David “Baliza’’ Bali, Benjamin “Mabla Matambanadzo’’ Mpofu, Witmore “Witez’’ Sarupinda and Weston “Muibha’’ Mvembe . The others are Mike Madzivanyika, Basil Chisopo, Oscar Motsi, brothers Misheck and Watson Sarupinda, Tidings Keta, Darlington Choto, Canny Tongesai, Andrew Chitungo and brothers Justin and Mike Bingadadi. When I had the opportunity to come back home in 2014, the first port of call was at Aces Youth Academy in Waterfalls, where Nigel Munyati shared some good insights of his project with me . I was invited for some coaching sessions at the Callies Ground in Eastlea. Goalkeeper Martin, who was only 15 back then, made a big impression on me. He was such an imposing figure I asked, Eckie Madzivanzira, about him. After watching him closely in training, I told Nigel Munyati I was the goalkeeper was made for the European leagues. The moment has come for Mapisa to progress into top-flight professional football. He can emulate the heroics of the Liverpool great Bruce Grobbelaar, with his physical presence and unquestionable talent. At 22, he has progressed very well in the Spanish league and age is still on his side to further develop into a better ‘keeper. What Bruce achieved, as a top goalkeeper in England, is just too impressive. This should become the benchmark to measure any Zimbabwean goalkeeper who comes to Europe with the dream of making it big. There was a time when African goalkeepers could have felt the top European clubs, and leagues, were not meant for them. However, this is changing and Edouard Mendy, who represents Senegal at international level, has shown one can reach the top. Our national team has crying out loud for a decent goalkeeper, who can stabilise the ship, bring confidence and control of our defensive units of the midfield and back four. We all saw what happens, when you don’t have a trusted goalkeeper, when our last AFCON finals campaign in Egypt, turned into a disaster. It appears, the stage of being cleared for Mapisa to become our number one and, just as well, he is in the right league and learning a lot.