The Herald LOS ANGELES. — From Hollywood stars to some of the finest athletes, the world has been uniting to wish golf superstar, Tiger Woods, a speedy recovery. He was injured in a horror car crash here on Tuesday. Serena Williams From tennis’ GOAT to golf’s GOAT, Serena Williams sent her love to Tiger in a tweet, with the 39-year-old sweetly calling him her “big brother. “Love you big brother… but we will get through this @TigerWoods,” she wrote. Serena resides in south Florida as does Tiger, and knows the pressures of what it takes to become the greatest in her sport.  Janet Jackson Singer Janet Jackson kept her message simple, telling Tiger on Instagram that she was “Sending thoughts and prayers to you.” The two teamed up in May 2019 for the golfer’s annual Tiger Jam to benefit Woods’ TGR Foundation, which provides resources to underrepresented school children.  Lindsey Vonn Olympic skier Lindsey Vonn took to Twitter to share her message of love and support to Tiger on February 23. “Praying for TW right now,” she wrote, adding a prayer hands emoji. The Olympic gold medalist previously dated Tiger from March 2013 until they went their separate ways in May 2015.  Jada Pinkett Smith Actress Jada Pinkett Smith sent a message to Tiger and his fans on Twitter mere moments after news of the accident went public. “Prayers up for the GOAT [Tiger Woods] who was in an accident this morning,” Jada wrote in her tweet. “Was just with him yesterday. Don’t take not even a MOMENT for granted! I know you’re good because your Tiger within is a beast!!!”  Jack Nicklaus Jack Nicklaus, regarded as one of the greatest golfers of all time, also shared his moving message regarding Tiger’s terrifying accident. “Barbara [Jack’s wife] and I just heard about Tiger’s accident, and like everyone else, we are deeply concerned,” he tweeted. “We want to offer him our heartfelt support and prayers at this difficult time. Please join us in wishing Tiger a successful surgery and all the best for a full recovery.”— HollywoodLife.com.