The Herald Arts Reporter Members of the gospel music female band — Breeze Music Group — are optimistic about tomorrow’s Zimbabwe Music Awards (Zima)’s show which is set to take place at Country Club, Newlands in Harare. The awards ceremony, which will be hosted virtually because of the Covid-19 restrictions and regulations, will be hosted by television presenter Rumbidzai Takawira. Breeze Music Group is riding high on the back of the nomination for best group 2020 at Zima, and the group members believe the latest feather in the cap has taken their music to celestial heights. The group is battling it out with Fusion 5 Mangwiro, Crisswiss and The Dot and Sinazo. Breeze Music Group is made up of Nyaradzo ‘Advocate Nyari’ Maphosa, Melody ‘Mel’ Mandisodza Muvuti, Sharon ‘Sisi Shaa’ Govha and Bekezela ‘Becky’ Moyo and has been making tailwinds on local radio stations. The group’s latest offering titled Wanyamalala urges young women not to live unprofitable lifestyles of ‘blessers.’ “These awards mean everything to us,” Maphosa told The Herald. “The nomination is what’s important. If you win its cherry on the top. The best thing about these awards is that it’s not just about popularity, but it’s a critique from professional judges.” In 2014, Breeze’s album “Hosanna” was nominated for the Zima Best Acapella Album. In 2015, the group held a charity concert in Reading, United Kingdom, for orphans and in 2017 it celebrated its 10th anniversary. The group, which targets regional and international markets, is a fundraiser for the Multi-Help Trust, which takes care of orphans and widows. Maphosa said the latest Zima nomination had opened doors for the all-female band. “It’s the highest honour we have received and it puts us on the map. We have received various contracts from companies and we are also doing jingles and there are proposals for endorsements. “So, we take this opportunity very seriously and accept it on behalf of all the girls as a motivation to tell each girl that if you dream it and you work hard at it you make it.” Breeze has so far released three albums. The name is inspired “by the entry of God’s spirit in a tabernacle” and “sanctity to the tabernacle in a way best described as a refreshing breeze entering the tired, beaten life,” said Maphosa. “Breeze is spreading the gospel of Jesus Christ in its generation, the message of preparedness for His Kingdom, keeping hope in Him secured through the varied styles of songs. Breeze is God’s craftsmanship, His artistry. It endeavours to display His goodness and grace to bless everyone who will receive Him. “Breeze wishes to encourage girls, women and anyone who has a dream to follow it with a passion. No matter how long it takes, all things are possible with God.”