The Herald LONDON. — Rampant English Premiership leaders Manchester City will relish a shot at revenge against Jose Mourinho’s Tottenham today. Liverpool face a tricky trip to Leicester hoping to benefit from a rare week off. City hammered Liverpool 4-1 at Anfield last weekend to open up a five-point lead over second-placed Manchester United at the top of the English Premiership table with a game in hand. Pep Guardiola’s men have not tasted defeat in 22 games in all competitions, since they faced Tottenham in November. Victory for Mourinho’s men that day took them top of the table and eight points clear of City. But, there has been a 22-point swing between the sides since, as Spurs have tumbled down to eighth. Once fierce rivals vying for superiority at Barcelona and Real Madrid, the 25th meeting between Guardiola and Mourinho comes at a time of contrasting fortunes for two of the world’s most-decorated coaches. Mourinho is under pressure after a run of four defeats in five games, while Guardiola is targeting an unprecedented quadruple of trophies. City set a new English record of 15 consecutive victories for a top-flight team by reaching the FA Cup quarter-finals on Wednesday. “It means and shows how special these players are,” said Guardiola. “In this toughest period, in the Christmas and winter time, to do what we have done so far is quite remarkable.” A big week for City could go a long way to securing a third league title in four years. They visit Everton for their game in hand on Wednesday and then travel to Arsenal next weekend. “The important thing is the way we are still playing and our consistency,” added Guardiola. “We are just thinking of the next one and we have an incredibly tough week ahead of us.” Jurgen Klopp admitted the height of Liverpool’s ambitions was now finishing in the top four to guarantee Champions League football next season. The Reds have won just three of their past 11 games, culminating in their collapse late on to City.  A stubborn injury crisis has left the defending champions looking physically and mentally drained, so a rare midweek off due to their early exit from the FA Cup may come as a blessing ahead of their visit to the King Power. Leicester sit third and are determined to avoid the mistakes they made last season, when they let a promising position slip in the final months of the campaign to finish fifth. The Foxes will be boosted by the return of talisman Jamie Vardy after the 34-year-old made his first start since groin surgery against Brighton in the FA Cup in midweek.  English Premiership Fixtures Today: Leicester City v Liverpool (2:30pm); Crystal Palace v Burnley (5pm); Manchester City v Tottenham Hotspur (7:30pm); Brighton & Hove Albion v Aston Villa (10pm). Tomorrow: Southampton v Wolverhampton Wanderers (2pm); West Bromwich Albion v Manchester United (4pm); Arsenal v Leeds United (6:30pm); Everton v Fulham (9pm). Monday: West Ham United v Sheffield United (8pm); Chelsea v Newcastle United (10pm). — AFP.