The Herald Elita Chikwati
Agriculture Reporter
Some A1 farmers want an extension to the deadline for the submission of the mandatory production return forms to the Ministry of Lands, Agriculture, Fisheries, Water and Rural Resettlement Ministry, a deadline set to separate genuine farmers from those who not producing on the State land they have been allocated. The Ministry announced on December 18 that A1 and A2 farmers had submitted the forms by the end of January, a deadline extended after some farmers said they had not received the forms, with those farmers who do not make the returns seeing farms being considered for reallocation to deserving people on the waiting list. Agritex officers will visit the farms and submit separate verification reports that the returns made by the farmers are correct. The information gathered shall assist the ministry to support provincial land committees in carrying out the new policy guidance on land redistribution. Holders of multiple farms, abandoned farms, derelict farms and underused farms will see all or part of their holdings reallocated. Farmers who fail to submit information shall be in the groups whose land can be reallocated. Zimbabwe Commercial Farmers Union president, Dr Shadreck Makombe yesterday said some areas had not received the forms and this would affect the exercise. “We had a meeting with the minister and we were assured that extension officers would go on the ground in each ward to assist farmers. “We hope there will be some grace period to allow all farmers to submit their forms. The exercise is not only good for the Government but for farmers as well,” he said. Most farmers were willing to submit the forms but were facing challenges. Zimbabwe Indigenous Women Farmers Association Trust president, Mrs Depinah Nkomo yesterday said some farmers had received the information late and had not filled in the forms. “Some farmers received information and assistance from Agritex officers while others have failed to download the forms. “We have received reports that farmers in Mazowe, Marondera, Zvimba had been assisted while some in Chegutu are yet to receive the forms. We are willing to comply with the requirement but we got the information late,” she said. Zimbabwe National Farmers Union vice president, Mr Edward Dune said they have received reports from farmers experiencing challenges downloading the forms. “Farmers are also experiencing challenges due to the lockdown restrictions,” he said. Lands, Agriculture, Fisheries, Water and Rural Resettlement Secretary Dr John Basera said there was no need for farmers to travel to Harare to submit forms. “They are to submit through their nearest Agritex officers or offices,” he said. The ministry took the move to transform the A2 farmers to become agricultural entreprenuers and the farms to become enviable business by 2025, while A1 farmers will also be transformed to become viable and formal small to medium enterprises by 2025. In pursuit of Vision 2030, the National Development Strategy 1 through the Agriculture and Food Systems Transformation Strategy seeks to transform the agricultural sector by making farming a business. A series of activities, courses and interfaces shall drive the transformation and focused upskilling activities are planned. There are 18 000 A2 farmers and 360 000 A1 farmers. The ministry invoked powers under the Agricultural Marketing Authority Act to make all A2 and A1 farmers to submit mandatory production returns. He said productive farms exceeding the maximum farm size for the respective agro-ecological regions shall be exempted from downsizing until further guidance. The ministry’s monitoring and evaluation unit will visit farms for verification. Farmers submitting false information risk losing offer letters.