The Herald LOS ANGELES. — Tiger Woods vowed not to let his car crash finish his golfing career, telling pals: “It can’t end like this.” The stricken golf superstar (45) insisted that if he can play again, he will. Tiger made the pledge as his girlfriend Erica Herman, agent Mark Steinberg and caddie Joe LaCava visited him at a medical centre in Los Angeles. Cops said Tiger has “no recollection” of the crash which left him facing months of rehab after having a metal rod, pins and screws inserted into his right leg and shattered ankle. A source close to Tiger said the ace was “frustrated” and told People magazine: “He doesn’t want his career to end like this. “If there’s any way at all he can continue playing, he will.” Dad-of-two Tiger was looking to return to action this year after back surgery. The source added: “This is a massive setback, and he knows it, but he’s overcome obstacles in the past and thinks he can do it again.” Woods will not face charges over his crash — which police said was “purely an accident”. They found no evidence that his driving was impaired. He was dashing to a TV shoot at a country club near Los Angeles on Monday morning. He allegedly cut up a TV director before his Genesis GV80 4×4 careered off a winding road, across the opposite carriageway and into a hillside. Tiger’s family fear he may get hooked on painkillers again during his lengthy recovery. Woods has been transferred to a Los Angeles medical facility for further treatment, according to a statement on Thursday from the hospital where he underwent surgery for serious leg injuries after his car crash. “Mr. Tiger Woods was transferred to Cedars-Sinai Medical Centre for continuing orthopaedic care and recovery,” said Anish Mahajan, CEO of the hospital where Woods was first taken. “On behalf of our staff, it was an honour to provide orthopaedic trauma care to one of our generation’s greatest athletes.” Woods was driving alone on Tuesday morning in a Los Angeles suburb on a road notorious for accidents when his SUV hit the centre median, crossed into the opposing lane, struck a tree and then rolled over several times. — The Sun