The Herald MANCHESTER. — If someone had said at the start of the English Premiership eason that a Manchester City player would win the PFA’s Players’ Player of the Year award, Ilkay Gundogan’s name would probably not have been at the top of many people’s list. But after inspiring his side to a comfortable win over Tottenham to open up a seven-point lead at the top of the table, Gundogan is one of the form players in the top flight. The 30-year-old Germany midfielder took his tally to 11 in the English Premier League with two of his side’s goals in the 3-0 win over Spurs on Saturday. In addition, he won the penalty that allowed Rodri to give City a first-half lead. “It looks like Gundogan is going to be the man to take Manchester City to the title,” ex-Liverpool defender Jamie Carragher told Sky Sports. “What a season he is having. I think he is going to be PFA player of the year. He has been a revelation, a joy to watch.” Gundogan limped off with a groin problem and could be a doubt for Wednesday’s Premier League game at Everton. But by the time he left the pitch he had already sealed the points for his side. While Spurs goalkeeper Hugo Lloris will feel he should have done better with Gundogan’s first, his second, to make it 3-0, was an excellent finish after holding off Davinson Sanchez following Ederson’s long ball forward. “I said many times he could play as a striker, like a false nine, and people laughed,” said Guardiola. “I understood why because he didn’t do it here. But he has the sense to arrive at the goal. “Today it was the action for a clear penalty and after he had the quality to score the two goals. He has the tempo to arrive there. He is so good in these moments. “He won the award for player of the month. If he keeps playing this way in February, he is going to win it again.” Asked why Gundogan is scoring so many goals, Guardiola added: “He is playing closer to the box. “When Fernandinho was out two seasons ago he was a holding midfielder, where it was difficult to score goals. “Now he plays close to the striker and he has an incredible sense to do movements to the box. Then there is the finishing. When a guy shoots the way he did for the second goal, Lloris cannot stop it.” City took the lead from the penalty spot after Pierre-Emile Hojbjerg’s foul on man-of-the-match Gundogan. Guardiola’s side had missed three of their previous six Premier League penalties this season, including one at Liverpool last week when Gundogan skied his kick. — BBC Sport.