The Herald Business Reporter A Zimbabwean has made waves in the South African property market, offering various services such as property acquisition and management. A holder of a BSc Town Planning degree from the University of Zimbabwe, Constance Mupondi, is a managing partner at Growthill Property Management based in Johannesburg. She told The Herald Finance and Business this week that prior to moving to South Africa, she worked in public and private sectors in Zimbabwe involved in construction, project planning, property development and valuation. After relocating to South Africa in 2010, she held various positions in real estate as lease coordinator, property administrator, rentals and sales consultant. Ms Mupondi said she started her firm CMM Property in 2016 and later partnered with two individuals in 2018, marking the birth of Growthill Property Management. “We are a growing business that is helping create a new era in property acquisition and management,” she said. “We also offer property purchases on behalf of investors outside South Africa (buyer advocacy), property sales, rentals, (furnished, unfurnished, student accommodation), project management services and we can offer any property related advice. “We are passionate about helping investors and giving service that is personalised, strategic and delivers outcomes based on the goals that our clients want to achieve.” She said Growthill aims to build long-term partnerships with clients and assist them in acquiring and managing their property investments portfolio. “It is our job to make sure that everything is taken care of, so it is one less thing you need to deal with. “This approach means we will look after your property the way we look after our own, using our professional skills and the latest technology to find quality tenants, handle marketing, repairs, maintenance, accounting and legal compliance efficiently and cost-effectively. “If you are looking for a property management company who will work with you to achieve your financial goals, then we would love to hear from you. We understand that as a property investor, you want an agency that understands your needs,” she said. The Growthill team offers comprehensive management and advisory services in all aspects of property management. Presently, the firm operated in Johannesburg and Pretoria and makes use of social media platforms to engage with prospective clients.