The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga
Sports Reporter
VETERAN coach, Bigboy Mawiwi, can barely wait for the return of football. His last job was with Hwange. The experienced gaffer was handed a tough task to save Hwange from the jaws of relegation. However, the mission failed, amid differences between the coach and some of those who had employed him. Mawiwi decided to take a break, but now feels he has recharged his batteries and wants another plunge into the trenches. “I was quiet but I think it’s time that I come back to the sport I love,’’ he said. “I missed every moment and it’s high time that I return. “I had a contract with Hwange, which I was supposed to honour, and it lapsed in 2019, that is why I was not active. “We need to honour some of these things and, as you know, I am someone who is very particular in that aspect as a professional. “After my two-and-half year contract came to an end, I was able to return, but that was the time when everything came to a standstill, because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “I hope during these times we also need to maintain our stadiums as some of them are in a sorry state. “I was impressed when I saw Ngezi Platinum maintaining their grounds and I just thought why can’t we have the same approach at Rufaro, Gwanzura, Chibuku, Dzivarasekwa and every other stadium?” The Ruwa-based coach, who is focusing on running his family business during this lockdown, said he feels sorry for some players who struggle after their playing days are over. He urged current and former players, to take a leaf from Clement Matawu who was recently appointed Chicken Inn team manager. “I think what Matawu did is very encouraging and, as a former footballer, he will come with more knowledge on players’ welfare,’’ he said. “We need more of that among our current players, as they have a life to live after football. “I am relaxing at home, running around, to make sure that I put food on the table. This lockdown came as a lesson to many of us and I hope it is a wake-up call to most of us. “I believe that players, and former footballers, should take into consideration that our careers in football are so short and, after our playing days, we should have something to lean back on. “I feel sorry for most players, including those I worked with and those I did not, as they do not have running contracts. “Even those with contracts are finding it hard to get their payments so it will be good for them to prepare for such situations.’’