The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter FOR teenage star, Danielle Kaschula, rowing started as her getaway option from tennis. At 13, she is writing her own success stories that will go down into the history books of sport, she broke several world records, in the 13-to-14 years age-group, and making a podium finish in the World Rowing Indoor Championships. She came third in the Under-19 women’s 500m and, it’s a milestone achievement, for the Peterhouse pupil. Kaschula finished third in the ongoing World Indoor Championships this week, competing in the Under-19, 500m. “I tried my best I didn’t think I would finish on the podium . . . top three would be nice is what I thought. But I thought I would be like top 10 . . . So it was quite a nice surprise,’’ she said. “It means a lot to me because, even last year, I have been focusing on rowing a lot and, so to see what I have put in, and then see a result, it means a lot. “At a young age, it’s nice because I didn’t ever think I could compete with the Under-19s. “The first time I heard I was competing with them I was so scared. But, once I did it in the Canadian rowing, and I did well, I was very happy and I don’t think that age should restrict your limit. “I think it helps more that it was virtual racing because I stepped into that, like I was able to compare times and stuff, and I was very lucky to be able to experience that. “I feel great and I know that I have achieved something amazing. But, I haven’t fully grasped the depth of it and I don’t like see the big picture because I am still just at Peterhouse. “I am doing it all by myself with people around me supporting me. But I am doing the actual rowing by myself and still go to school every day.’’ The Form Two Peterhouse pupil, competed in a number of events — the African Indoor Championships, the Irish Championships and the Canadian Championships. Danielle took up rowing in 2019 when she was in Grade Seven at Springvale, after her mother Shelley realised tennis was not her favourite sport, and she wasn’t good at it either. Shelley engaged the heads at Springvale and Peterhouse, since the sport is usually offered at High School, and a few schools have the sport. With permission from her junior school, Danielle joined the rowing team and was the youngest. “When I started rowing I was interested in the sport but I didn’t think that I would be competing at the World Championships and racing in the Canadian indoor, I didn’t think of that, I didn’t imagine that. “I just thought that I will just do the South African tour and that would be a once-a-year tour and stuff. “I didn’t think that it would be that serious and I really liked it. “Then, when I did the championships and I got a podium finish, I was really happy with that. It made me feel a lot more confident. “It makes me feel more confident to race in the older age-groups and see that I do well and then when I do well it gives me more confidence to carry on rowing. “I think when I started rowing, it was very hard because, first of all, I was the youngest and it was a lot of skills, to learn and balance the scull and everything, and it was quite tough in the beginning but I still liked it.” Training is part of her daily routine, from Monday to Friday, and it revolves around sprints, training in the water, gym and some days she does cardio. Shelley says the amazing part of Danielle’s story is she does most of the work on her own since she does not have a coach, although she has some people at school, who give her pointers. She mostly relies on YouTube and videos of people rowing. “It is wonderful to see what Danielle has achieved at such a young age. It is very fulfilling, as a parent, just because she has always shown so much potential. “And, there is more potential that has not even, you know, the surface has not been scratched on her potential. “So, as a parent, it is wonderful to see her shine. “And it’s just great to see her step into her capabilities. It’s really a wonderful thing, it’s lovely and we are so proud of her as parents. “The future is good, as long as she is happy, as long a she wants to do it, we just encourage her to give her best, to shine,” said Shelley. Danielle said the long-term goal was to reach the Olympics. She also loves swimming, spending time with her two dogs and has an interest in indoor decorations as well as travelling.