The Herald Conrad Mupesa
Mashonaland West Bureau
First Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa yesterday donated foodstuffs to seven children’s homes in Mashonaland West through her Angel of Hope Foundation. Expressing their gratitude after receiving the donation at Good Shepherd Children’s Home in Chinhoyi, administrators from the homes said the gesture by Amai Mnangagwa came at an opportune time when they were facing food challenges because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Good Shepherd Children’s Home administrator, Mrs Farai Zunzanyika, said the assistance from the First Lady had boosted food supplies at the facility which has 48 children. “We have 48 children including 22 girls. The First Lady’s gesture has helped us to get the food items that we required. Without cooking oil, washing soap and roller meal, it had become difficult for us to care for the children,” she said. “We are also facing challenges with firewood that we use for cooking as we cannot afford electricity or gas.” Kadoma Training Institute administrator, Ms Ellen Muchokwani, said the assistance had come at the right time. Minister of State for Provincial Affairs and Devolution, Mary Mliswa-Chikoka, who handed over the food items on behalf of the First Lady, thanked her for remembering the homes during the Covid-19 pandemic. She urged administrators at the homes and orphanages to continue adhering to World Health Organisation Covid-19 guidelines. She said it was impressive that none of the homes across the province had recorded any positive case. “It is imperative that we exercise due diligence especially in the wake of the new strain of the virus, which is also deadly to children,” she said. “In these trying times of Covid-19, Amai continues to remember the less-privileged and I am glad that in her wisdom, she has remembered our children in the homes, augmenting Government’s efforts of ensuring that even in these difficult times, everyone especially the vulnerable, are supported. “I am also very impressed by the level of vigilance exhibited by administrators running our homes. I have not received a single case of Covid-19 recorded at our homes. Let us maintain that in our homes because while we may think that children are not severely affected by the virus, you the caregivers are at risk.” Minister Mliswa-Chikoka, who recently recovered from the virus, also said children above 10 years of age were not safe from the new strain. “With this new strain, administrators should be vigilant and keep our children safe and avoid allowing outsiders into the homes.” Provincial social development officer Mrs Agness Mutowo said the department was working tirelessly to ensure that all the homes, including those of the old, were protected from the pandemic. “We are following Covid-19 guidelines and regulations at all the homes across the province. We are emphasising the restricted number of visitors, masking and sanitising. It is also a must that children stay inside the premises to avoid interacting with outsiders.” “Let me assure you that all the children under our care are safe. We are adhering to WHO guidelines and national regulations. We are maintaining restricted movement in and outside our homes. “We have a shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) and we feel for our caregivers who cannot travel to their homes to see their families due to travel restrictions.” Homes in Zvimba, Makonde and Hurungwe districts and Norton received an assortment of foodstuffs that included cooking oil and mealie-meal.