The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter THE National Sports Stadium comes under the spotlight again today as CAF have requested a report of the state of the venue ahead of the Warriors’ last AFCON qualifying home game against Zambia next month. An inspection team is expected to tour the stadium today to see its readiness for the upcoming fixture. The stadium, which was barred from hosting such matches last year, after falling short of the minimum requirements, is expected to host the Group H match showdown on March 30. CAF issued a temporary reprieve, for the use of the giant stadium, late last year. Abdelmounaim Bah, the CAF acting secretary-general, on Tuesday sent a circular to all the member associations to provide a detailed report on the state of their proposed home venues. The reports, which will be accompanied by pictures, will be examined to see if the venues are suitable to host the qualifying matches. Bah said the reports were expected to reach the CAF offices by end of business tomorrow. “In reference to the upcoming Africa Cup of Nations 2021 Qualifiers (Matchday 5 & 6), kindly note that all matches must be played in stadiums homologated by CAF for use in this phase of the competition. “With the objective of verifying the current state of your proposed venue, and in order to ensure the use of quality stadia during the aforementioned qualifier matches, your association is requested to send to CAF a full stadium inspection report including photo and video evidence of the venue where your home match will take place for the Africa Cup of Nations 2021 Qualifiers (Matchday 5 & 6). “The stadium inspection should be conducted by the MA Club Licensing Manager and the filled stadium inspection report, including the photo and video evidence of each sector of the stadium, must be provided to the CAF Club Licensing Department no later than the 5th of February,” read part of the circular. The reports are needed for the preparation of fixtures. Normally CAF release fixtures, a month before the matches, to allow for proper logistical preparations. ZIFA Communications and Competitions manager, Xolisani Gwesela, said the inspection of the stadium will be conducted this morning. The association risks attracting fines from CAF if they fail to meet the deadlines to submit their stadium inspection reports. “Kindly note that failure to comply with this obligation by the set deadline may result in a fine in accordance with the competition regulations, while further disciplinary sanctions may incur on your federation. “Upon receiving the above-mentioned documents and reports, and based on the actual information provided to CAF, a decision will be taken concerning the venue for your upcoming Africa Cup of Nations 2021 Qualifiers.” Bah said CAF will not compromise on the quality of the facilities to be used for the continental games. “In case the proposed stadium does not fulfil the minimum requirement for this phase of the competition, your national team may be required to play their matches in an approved stadium in another country. “Once again, we emphasise that quality stadiums are fundamental to the development and progress of African football, hence the regulations will be implemented rigidly by CAF. “We appreciate your continuous support in helping us raise the level of our African football with improved facilities as we continue to gain exposure to a global audience.” Zimbabwe are currently second in the race for the Group H ticket after amassing five points from their opening four matches. Algeria have since qualified from the group and the battle is now between Zimbabwe, Botswana and Zambia. The Warriors, on five points, have a slight advantage over Botswana who have four points and Zambia who anchor the group on three points. Zimbabwe travel to Botswana for their next match on March 22 before hosting Zambia in the last assignment. However, the National Sports Stadium is still under the CAF spotlight after it failed to meet the set requirements. Zimbabwe, however, got a temporary reprieve in November when CAF allowed them to host Algeria at home, where they fought gallantly for a 2-2 draw. Local champions FC Platinum have been using the stadium for their CAF Champions League campaign. Government has been on the forefront of the refurbishment of the stadium and mobilised resources for the work that started last year.