The Herald LONDON.  — Manchester City have set their sights on a clean sweep of the four major trophies as the runaway English Premier League leaders prepare to host high-flying West Ham this weekend. To have any chance of putting City under pressure, second-placed Manchester United must end Thomas Tuchel’s unbeaten start as Chelsea boss tomorrow. Manchester City’s march to the top was not a surprise, given their title-winning pedigree, but their record-breaking surge has fuelled the belief that they can achieve greatness. City chalked up their 19th successive win in all competitions — a record for an English top-flight side — as they eased to a 2-0 victory at Borussia Monchengladbach in the Champions League last-16 first leg on Wednesday. Pep Guardiola’s side are 10 points clear at the top of the English Premier League, face Tottenham in the League Cup final and have reached the FA Cup quarter-finals. Bernardo Silva, who was on the scoresheet against Borussia, gave voice to City’s swaggering confidence after they moved a step closer to an unprecedented quadruple. Unbeaten in 26 matches stretching back to November, Silva said City could set a new standard of excellence after their domestic treble two years ago. “We know we have good momentum, but this is just the last 16 of the Champions League,” he said. “We have the Premier League, the FA Cup and the League Cup. “It is going to be a tough season but we are going to try to win them all.” Manchester United are the closest challengers to Manchester City, but Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s men will need a major collapse from their rivals if they are to win the title for the first time since 2013. They will be withour Paul Pogba, who remains injured, and is out for another few weeks. Victory at Chelsea tomorrow is essential to keep United’s faint hopes alive. That will not be easy given the Blues’ revival under former Paris Saint-Germain boss Thomas Tuchel. English Premiership Fixtures Today: Manchester City v West Ham United (2:30pm); West Bromwich Albion v Brighton & Hove Albion (5pm); Leeds United v Aston Villa (7:30pm); Newcastle United v Wolverhampton Wanderers (10pm). Tomorrow: Leicester City v Arsenal (2pm); Crystal Palace v Fulham (2pm); Tottenham Hotspur v Burnley (4pm); Chelsea v Manchester United (6:30pm); Sheffield United v Liverpool (9:15pm). Monday: Everton v Southampton (10pm). Tuesday: Manchester City v Wolverhampton Wanderers (10pm). — AFP.