The Herald Business Reporter LEADING property companies have embarked on a move that is set to expand the Kadoma City residential space following development of more than 500 medium density stands in the mining town. Rawson Properties Group and Altrac Construction Services, are developing a flashy suburb known as Wesley Park situated along Bulawayo Road with full servicing of the area that will see tarred roads, storm water drains as well as reticulated water and sewer being set. The development, which is almost nearing completion, has seen home seekers jostling for the serviced stands, which are set to change the face of the gold mining town. Kadoma is the capital city of Mashonaland West, whose economy is also besides mining, is anchored on agricultural production. For over two decades, small cities and towns have been left out in residential expansion with developers parcelling out stands which are not fully serviced amid lack of proper roads and without water and sewer systems, rendering habitation almost impossible. Other players have been selling stands at undesignated areas and wetlands posing danger to the environment and serious loses to would be house owners. But the Wesley Park project is set to change the face of Kadoma City and in the process attract investment as according to Government’ devolution agenda. The two property giants Altrac Construction and Rawson Properties, will complement each other in the project in land development and marketing respectively. Rawson Properties yesterday said in a statement: “Home seekers will be issued with title deeds upon full completion of the project as well as payment of full purchase price.” The development follows cries by home seekers who have been yearning for fully serviced stands with tarred roads, sewer and access to potable water as well as clean paperwork. Rawson Properties added that the development had changed the face of the housing market in Kadoma, with the area standing to it’s billing as the City of Gold. “The stands are strategically located less than a kilometre from the central business district. This has completely changed the situation of the housing market in Kadoma. “For a long time, it has been rare to find serious and committed land developers who can provide home seekers with genuine and fully developed stands especially in towns and cities outside Harare.”