The Herald Chiyambire Kazaka
A brand that is well positioned is the one that calls the shots on the market. It provokes the emotional and rational instincts of the customers. How does an organisation’s brand occupy that exclusive position in the mind of the customer? Yes, every organisation does some branding at some stage, but the key question is how best have you done yours? Here are some tips on how best to create exclusive brand positioning. Good brand positioning strategy starts off by clearly defining the target market. Most companies underestimate this stage assuming that it is a departmental function, no its not, in fact it is a key corporate strategic function that shapes and directs ancillary and supporting functions in coming up with a strong brand positioning statement. You see, most blunders happen at this stage where marketing departments or sales departments are given this role. By departmentalising this function, already, the brand position that will be generated will not be all encompassing, instead it may only fulfil a departmental role. It is at this stage where customer benefits are clearly dissected and profiled. Remember that well defined customer benefits are the backbone of sound brand positioning strategy. Most importantly an organisation should profile and define existing customer benefits, Why? We said last week that a brand must be relevant and must not suffer from “brand fatigue”. Its that simple. The second aspect for exceptional brand positioning is the creation of the Point of Difference (POD) or the Unique selling Proposition (USP). What is it that the organisation has to offer that is not offered by competitors, and how unique is the offer? In other words, the organisation’s PoD /USP must be a benefit that is different from competitors’, and that is highly valued by the target market. This then calls for a thorough competitor analysis. Remember that a brand positioning statement is an internal document, that is jealously guarded against. Management must know that this is not a mere Tagline. A tagline is external in nature NOT vice versa. Therefore, some expert inferential conclusions and logical deductions must be done when conducting such competitor analysis. Again, this shows the strategic nature of Brand Positioning Statement, not departmental. Lastly, the organisation must position its brand on a single, well thought out benefit or brand attribute. This is simple because it emanates from good and sound target market analysis and the competitor analysis. In some cases, multiple benefits brand positioning is used. This is where the trap is. When using multiple benefit there is need for management to establish the fit among the benefits, otherwise it is a recipe for disaster. These benefits must complement each other. Most organisations miss this one. For instance, for an academic institution to position its brand on best results and free for all enrolment, to me it is a fallacy. If the enrolment is free for all, anytime, without some defined benchmark on students’ capability then one of the two benefits must be wrong regardless of teacher capabilities or good infrastructure. The target market will automatically see the confusion and deception that is in your brand. Join me in the next discussion on brand and branding Issues. Until then God bless you. Chiyambire Kazaka is an independent writer and an academic with strong passion in the field of business branding.  Cell: 0772 893 955 (Call and Watsapp) Email: ckazaka@gmail.com 