The Herald Bulawayo Bureau
BUSINESS and individual clients who are caught violating Covid-19 lockdown regulations without necessary exemption will not receive cover for risks from insurance companies during that period, the pensions and insurance regulator has warned. Zimbabwe remains under level 4 lockdown following the second wave Covid-19 infections, which continue to claim lives in the country and abroad. President Mnangagwa on Monday extended the lockdown, which prohibits unnecessary movements between 8pm and 5am except for those with special exemption and essential services. However, some businesses have been found operating outside lockdown protocols and motorists who break the curfew with some having been involved in accidents. In written responses, Insurance and Pensions Commissions (IPEC)’s director insurance and micro-insurance supervision, Mrs Sibongile Siwela, said insurance policies have terms and conditions, which ought to be followed. She said non-compliance with Government regulations normally leads to rejection of claims. “Individuals travelling during the curfew without the necessary exemption will be operating outside the dictates of the law and insurance policies cease to apply in cases of violating the law,” she said. “Usually, insurance policies have terms and conditions indicating that the policy will cease if the policy holder is in violation of the law.” Mrs Siwela said insurance companies would not want to support activities that violate the law hence they may reject claims emanating from driving or risk occurrences during the curfew hours of the lockdown period. “Individuals are, therefore, urged to avoid driving during the curfew hours unless they have special exemption,” she said. Mrs Siwela said while insurance companies cover claims for accidents that occur during the lockdown period, these should be subject to the confinements of the law. However, claims emanating from illegal driving during the lockdown period, will be rejected, she explained. “For example, a claim from a public service vehicle offering transport services during the lockdown is bound to be rejected unless operating under the Zupco banner, which has been cleared to offer such services under strict Covid-19 conditions,” said Mrs Siwela. She said while the pensions and insurance watchdog does not have statistics on the latest number of claims made during the lockdown, a total of claims amounting to $872,52 million were paid during the lockdown period as at September 30, 2020. “The commission does not have the statistics on the number of claims or those repudiated during the lockdown period,” she said. “Motorists are urged to adhere to the Government’s lockdown restrictions and defined health guidelines. Driving during curfew and the offer of transport services without the necessary exemption may result in the repudiation of claims in the event of an accident.”