The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter FC PLATINUM have knocked on the doors of CAPS United for the services of goalkeeper Wallace Magalane and midfielder Innocent Mucheneka. The Zimbabwe champions are looking to beef up their squad for the CAF Confederation Cup competition. They play Senegalese giants, ASC Jaraaf, in the play-offs for the group stage qualification, in a fortnight.  Magalane is a former FC Platinum goalkeeper, who signed for Makapekepe, last season.  However, the 27-year-old could return to Zvishavane, without having kicked a ball for the Green Machine, after the domestic League failed to get underway last year. Former Chicken Inn midfielder, Mucheneka, is also likely to leave Makepekepe, without having donned their strip, due to the suspension of local football games because of the coronavirus pandemic lockdown. FC Platinum spokesperson, Chido Chizondo, confirmed negotiations have since begun with the two players. “We are still discussing with Wallace. We have also been talking to Muchekeka and we are very hopeful something positive will materialise from the negotiations,” she said. Magalane was one of the heroes of FC Platinum’s 2019 campaign, after helping the Zvishavane side clinch an historic third straight championship. They beat rivals CAPS United and Chicken Inn to the finishing line on the last day of the league programme. However, the goalkeeper was among the six players released by the club in January last year, as they prepared for the return leg of their CAF Champions League match against Al Ahly.  Apparently, Magalane had made the decision to move in search of game time, following the expiry of his contract with the platinum miners. He was overshadowed in the battle for selection by captain and first-choice goalkeeper, Petros Mhari. Magalane’s agent, Gibson Mahachi, yesterday confirmed there have been inquiries from the Zvishavane miners. The goalkeeper still has a year left, on his contract, with the Green Machine. “They indicated they are interested in the player for their Confederation Cup competition and we have put it forward to CAPS United,’’ said Mahachi. “CAPS United are yet to respond to the request. But, it’s something that is being worked on.’’ FC Platinum are preparing for their showdown againt ASC Jaraaf. The first leg has been set for February 14, at the National Sports Stadium, with the return leg set for the following week at the multi-purpose Stade Demba Diop in Dakar. The three-time Zimbabwe champions dropped from the Champions League following a controversial 1-4 aggregate defeat at the hands of Tanzania’s Simba SC. They have since unveiled two new signings, following the arrival of another of their old boys, Donald Ngoma, and ex-Dynamos defender, Blessing Moyo. Chizondo said negotiations to bring back former Soccer Star of the Year, Rodwell Chinyengetere, were at an advanced stage. The team got the clearance from the Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation, in line with the national Covid-19 lockdown measures, to train for the match against the West Africans. They are set to shift base to Harare, later this week, for the final leg of their preparations. The match will be at the National Sports Stadium. Chizondo said they have been religiously implementing the coronavirus health guidelines in their efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19. The club are expected, among other things, to organise mandatory testing of all players and officials, establish a minimum 10-day bubble camp and appoint a Covid-19 Compliance Officer to ensure full compliance with Covid-19 national and international protocols.