The Herald Ellina Mhlanga
Senior Sports Reporter
SPAIN is slowly becoming the new home for a number of Zimbabweans who are making a breakthrough into football in the European country. Zimbabwean coach, Samkeliso Paradzai Ncube, has become the latest export to Spain. Ncube joined the coaching staff of the first team of Spanish fifth-tier outfit, FC Malaga City. The European country is already home to Zimbabwe international goalkeeper, Martin Mapisa. Mighty Warriors captain, Emmaculate Msipa, recently joined Segunda Division Feminina football side, CF Joventut Almassora. According to PanAfrican Football, Ncube described the development as an amazing opportunity, which will help him sharpen his coaching skills. “It’s an amazing opportunity to hone my skills in one of the best footballing countries in the world,’’ the coach said. “They have an amazing football culture. I am going to absorb as much of the good stuff as possible. “I think it is good, for local coaches to be exposed to international methods, to make our local football improve its quality and competitiveness. “Zimbabwe football needs rebuilding, from grassroots right to the top. We need to produce well-developed players, if we are to succeed.’’ FC Malaga City are the club where Mapisa began his football journey in Spain. Mapisa joined FC Malaga City Academy in 2018, from the famed Aces Youth Academy. He was soon promoted to CD Almuñecar City, the senior team, before earning a permanent move to Tercera Division team, Vélez CF. The highly-rated goalkeeper then moved to Madrid-based Zamora CF, as he continued to impress, and has been making good progress. Most local coaches have taken their careers to neighbouring countries led by South Africa. Some have made it to Zambia, Botswana and Malawi, Namibia and Swaziland. But, there are signs some coaching are now prepared to take the plunge into Europe. ZIFA technical director, Wilson Mutekede, who worked with Ncube at Twalumba, described him as an ambitious, determined and committed individual. He said the move to Spain was an opportunity for the young coach to further his career. “I worked with him from 2011, up to around 2014, 2015. He has always been a young man who was very ambitious. “He was very determined, he had the confidence, even when he had not acquired his first badge. “Then, he was assisting us in managing the equipment, and other logistics for the team, and some administrative work. “But, he was passionate about his job, very hardworking, so, we helped him a lot because he was hardworking and was committed to his work.’’ He said Ncube worked his way up the ladder. “From there he grew, making earnest progress, starting at Level One, Level Two and up until he went to South Africa,’’ said Mutekede. “But, we kept in touch. “I am happy that he has managed to achieve that feat, that he is now at Malaga, where he is again enhancing his knowledge in coaching. “It’s very good to see young people rising, especially someone who is willing to learn.’’ Ncube joins the likes of former Young Warriors coach, Phillip Mbofana, who last year joined Polish Third Division side, City Wilanow, as an assistant coach. The club are based in Polish capital Warsaw.