The Herald Harry, Meghan tell all on Oprah TV Royal sources say there is now ‘no way back to official duties’ for Prince Harry and Meghan Markle as the couple agree to 90-minute tell-all Oprah TV special Harry and Meghan are set to lose all their remaining royal patronages, the Daily Mail revealed yesterday. The revelation follows an announcement that the couple have recorded a ‘tell-all’ TV special with Oprah Winfrey.
It is understood the Queen is to ask them to relinquish their links with any organisations passed down through the Royal Family.
Her 36-year-old grandson would be stripped of his three remaining honorary military titles and, potentially, his patronages with the Rugby Football Union, Rugby Football League and the London Marathon.
Meghan would have to step down as patron of the National Theatre, unless she can negotiate another position with them. When she was handed the role in 2019, it was seen as a major gesture of support and affection because the Queen had been patron of the London institution for 45 years. One grey area is expected to be the couple’s links with the Commonwealth, but sources suggested that these are likely to go as well. It was confirmed last night that Meghan, 39, had agreed to a ‘wide-ranging’ interview with Miss Winfrey, who is one of the most powerful women in US showbusiness. It is believed the programme has already been recorded. The two women are friends and near neighbours in California, with Miss Winfrey attending the Duke and Duchess of Sussex’s wedding in 2018 and plugging a range of vegan lattes that Meghan has helped finance. One source described the interview as ‘one of the most inevitable and, sadly, predictable consequences’ of the ‘Megxit’ saga. Harry will also feature in the 90-minute show. It will air next month on CBS and the couple will discuss their move to the United States. It will be the first time the pair have spoken publicly about their bombshell decision to leave Britain and step down from their working roles in the Royal Family. It follows news that the couple are expecting their second child. The Duke and Duchess of Sussex said they were ‘overjoyed’ at their pregnancy, revealed on Valentine’s Day. The decision to take part in the interview risks angering – and embarrassing – the Royal Family. It could also widen the divisions between Harry and his brother, Prince William, and William’s wife, the Duchess of Cambridge. The interview will be staged in two parts, with Meghan first speaking about everything from ‘stepping into life as a royal, marriage, motherhood, philanthropic work to how she is handling life under intense public pressure’. She will then be joined by Harry and the couple will speak about their move last year and their future ‘hopes and dreams for their expanding family’. Titled ‘Oprah With Meghan And Harry: A CBS Primetime Special’, the programme will air on March 7. Buckingham Palace declined to comment last night about the interview, which will be aired six weeks before the Queen’s 95th birthday and in advance of celebrations for Prince Philip’s 100th. A royal source said that as the couple were no longer working royals, any decisions taken with regard to ‘media commitments are matters for them’. They were ‘under no obligation’ to inform the Royal Household of their plans. The interview was announced by CBS in a press release. While there was no angry reaction from the palace – it has taken great pains not to get into a public slanging match with the Sussexes – the coldness of the response was evident. The decision to strip the couple of their last remaining royal titles is not being done as a reaction to the interview. It is being perceived that the televised chat was agreed because the couple could ‘see the direction of travel’ of future royal roles. Sources have stressed that a 12-month review of their new status was not put into place last year with a renegotiation of terms in mind, but as a safety net in case they moved abroad ‘and didn’t get a dime in the bank’. Harry and Meghan have since secured multi-million deals with companies including Spotify and Netflix, meaning that their futures are now assured. But their decision to pursue commercial tie-ups has made their position as quasi-royals simply impossible, courtiers believe. – dailymail.co.uk