The Herald Crime Reporter One of Zimbabwe’s most wanted robbery suspects, Spicer Takawira, alleged to be part Musa Taj Abdul’s gang, was arrested this week on charges of house breaking and theft. Takawira (28), Musafare Mupanhanga and Conwell Kasambarare are alleged to be part of the gang that raided Mashwede Holdings last year and got away with over US$100 000, R42 000, $14 000 worth of fuel coupons, firearms and 20 live rounds of ammunition. They were released from jail on bail pending appeal at the High Court last year and had since gone into hiding. Police then launched a manhunt for them, together with more than nine other suspected robbers, including two ex-policemen. In a statement yesterday, CID spokesperson Detective Inspector Portia Chinho confirmed that Takawira was arrested this week after he had gone to report in fulfilment of bail conditions set when he was released on bail pending appeal over other matters. The arrest comes after detectives from CID arrested Takawira’s alleged accomplice, identified as Leo Mandaza (40) of Kuwadzana Extension for a spate of unlawful entry and theft cases. Mandaza is facing seven counts and he and four accomplices, including Takwaira and three others who are still at large, are accused of targeting homes and premises in and around Highfield, Glen Norah and Workington in Harare. Det Insp Chinho said in one of the cases, the suspects allegedly raided one of the leading service stations in Glen Norah, forced open the storeroom door and stole motor vehicle spares and oils. The owners found out the following morning and reported the matter to the police. Investigations carried out led to the arrest of Mandaza and he led detectives to the recovery of some of the property which include car batteries. He has since appeared in court and was remanded in custody. With Mandaza and Takawira in custody, police are now appealing for information that may lead to the arrest of Godwin Kusikwenyu (34), last known address 11222 Parkridge Kuwadzana, and two others only identified as Chamu and Con. The arrest also comes after prosecutor Arthur Bosha was arrested last week for consenting to bail for Musafare Mupanhanga, who is suspected to be part of the Musa Taj Abdul gang. His arrest came after the CID Homicide filed complaints against him with the Police Anti-Corruption Unit and the Special Anti-Corruption Unit. Bosha has since appeared in court and was remanded in custody. Recently, prosecutor Tapiwa Kasema was arrested for consenting to bail for four other suspected armed robbers led by Taj Abdul. The robbers were rearrested on fresh charges before they could be released on bail. In March last year, Mashwede Holdings lost the cash to five workers and nine suspected robbers. The five workers, Mupanhanga and Kasambarare were then arrested and appeared in court. Among the five workers were two brothers related to the business owner while two were security guards. The two robbers were then remanded in custody and advised to apply for bail at the High Court. Mupanhanga, Kasambarare and Takawira then applied for bail, which was granted between May and October last year. Bosha consented to Mupanhanga’s release on $2 000 bail on October 9, after the State agreed on the basis that some of his co-accused, including Takawira were out on bail.