The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter FORMER Ngezi Platinum Stars captain, Frank Makarati, has agreed in principle to join Dynamos on a one-year contract. The ex-How Mine defender was on DeMbare’s radar since coach Tonderai Ndiraya re-joined the Harare giants from the Mhondoro team. And, Makarati refused to renew his stay at Ngezi upon the expiry of his contract in December last year. There was a strong possibility the highly-rated centre-back would join a top-flight Egyptian club early last month. But, the Covid-19 regulations in North Africa meant the undisclosed club had to delay their pursuit. The Herald understands the Egyptian side are still keen on taking Makarati on board, the reason why he has opted to pen a short-term deal with Dynamos. Ngezi Platinum wanted him to commit to, at least, two more years but the defender refused. Makarati said he has agreed to join Dynamos with most of the loose ends having already been tied. “It’s not yet official but unless the Egyptian team makes it swifter than we expect, I am going to be turning out for Dynamos for the rest of this year,” said Makarati. “We have agreed to go to bed with Dynamos and I should say there are only very few items to be addressed before I put the bold letters to the white paper. “Of course, I would have extended my stay at Ngezi Platinum Stars. They made me who I am today. I will forever cherish the days I stayed in Mhondoro. “They are a massive club and I know, one day I will find my way back there. “But, my case was a little bit complicated and we couldn’t agree on some things. “I am supposed to be going to Egypt but, because of the Covid-19 regulations, I will have to wait so I wanted some clauses to be inserted in the contract to that effect so that when the Egyptian club comes, I will be free to go. “That is why I ended up opting for Dynamos. Besides, Dynamos are a massive club. It’s actually an honour, not just to play for them, but to be part of them. “I am very happy and I hope Covid-19 will spare us and I will be able to put on that famous blue jersey.” Makarati is recognised as one of the best defenders in the country. He was the outstanding Ngezi Platinum Stars player in the 2019 season but he couldn’t find his way onto the Soccer Stars of the Year calendar after he was disqualified for accumulating too many yellow cards. He was, however, voted Ngezi Platinum Stars’ best player for that season after he helped Rodwell Dhlakama’s men to the Chibuku Super Cup final, which they lost 0-1 to Highlanders, as well as a top-four place in the league. The defender was part of the CHAN provisional squad, picked by coach Zdravko Logarusic, but he was overlooked in the final 23-man squad which eventually travelled for the finals in Cameroon. Dynamos already have good defenders in Stephen Appiah, Munyaradzi Mawadza and captain Patson Jaure who Makarati will have to compete with for a starting berth if football activities are allowed back. While Makarati has opted out, goalkeeper Nelson Chadya has decided to prolong his stay at Baobab. Chadya and Makarati were both linked with Dynamos. But, Chadya, who was part of the CHAN squad, has decided to extend his term by two more years.