The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter SOME of the local long distance runners, who usually compete in the Two Oceans and Comrades Marathon, are disappointed after the cancellation of the events. The Two Oceans organisers announced, earlier this month, the event would not be held on April 3 after it was called off. The organisers for the Comrades also announced the cancellation of the race. It was set for June 13. They indicated that they reached their decision after consultation with various stakeholders, citing the ongoing uncertainty because of the coronavirus pandemic. The two races attract tens of thousands of athletes, from across the globe. Veteran distance runner, Mike Fokorani, said the Comrades Marathon was one of his main races. “It’s a disappointment because, definitely, the Comrades Marathon is one of my favourite races,’’ said Fokorani. “Right now, I am earning a living, through the Comrades because we have had contracts with our sponsors since 2016. “We renew them every year. Last year, we didn’t sign the contracts because of Covid-19, however, we were getting some incentives, even for this year I have already received (an incentive) for January. “It’s a big blow for us as athletes because this is our profession. I also feel for my colleagues, some totally rely on athletics.’’ It is the second year, in a row, the two ultra-marathons have been cancelled. However, for the Comrades, they will have the second edition of the virtual event, on the same day they were supposed to hold the physical event. “We are motivated when we meet for the physical event. The sponsors will be present, the routes are well measured and all that. “So, that experience, atmosphere and feeling is not there when doing virtual races, but I am going to take part,” said Fokorani. Collen Makaza, who has also been to the Comrades and Two Oceans, said the year has started on a challenging note, with races being called off. “For us, the cancellation of both the Two Oceans and the Comrades, is a big blow. “Most of us have contracts with South African clubs, so we earn a living from those two races. “Most of the senior athletes, in the country have contracts, so it’s a huge blow because when we are preparing for those races, we get incentives. “But, now for this year, I don’t what’s going to happen, we are all affected. “And I think for Comrades it was too early to cancel since it was supposed to come in June,” said Makaza. Veteran female runner Tabitha Tsatsa said some of the athletes may end up quitting. “It’s sad that it’s happening but, actually, life comes first. I think this will not last forever and we will continue competing again. “Some may quit, because it’s been long,’’ said Tsatsa.