The Herald Pretoria. — KAITANO TEMBO was left to wonder how his men ended up losing to Bloemfontein Celtic yesterday after the hosts struck the winner from one of the worst offside calls in Supa Diski history. With the two sides level 1-1 at Dr Molemela Stadium, SuperSport United were dealt a terrible blow when the hosts scored from one of the poorest refereeing calls in the history of the South African Premiership. Celtic’s winner came when from Motebang Sera, who was on hand to tap home from Harris Tchilimbou’s well-placed cross, although replays showed that the assistant referee missed a massive off-side call on both players. “Sir, what does an offside look like?’’ asked SuperSport United, on their Twitter account, after posting the move that resulted in the controversial goal. It was a tightly contested first-half as both sides enjoyed a fairly equal share of possession and chances to score, but both goalkeepers managed to keep the opposition at bay. Sipho Mbule nearly found the opener with a powerfully driven right-footed shot just before the half-time break but Sipho Chaine was equal to the task. Celtic broke the deadlock just seconds into the second half as Reagan Van Der Ross wrong-footed Ronwen Williams before finding the roof of the net on his full Celtic debut. SuperSport eventually made their imprint on the scoresheet 11 minutes later with Lucky Mohomi neatly curling home from the edge of the 18-yard area after collecting Chaine’s clearance from a corner. Bradley Grobler nearly found his 13th of the season but for a last-gasp clearance off the line from Mahashe on the hour-mark, before Celtic withdrew their goal scorer for Tchilimbou. Sera nearly restored the hosts’ lead in the 70th minute with a powerful drive that beat Williams but only to be denied by the upright. There was a spot of bother for coach John Maduka in the 74th minute as Chaine clattered into Thamsanqa Gabuza during a 50-50 challenge on the edge of the box. Matsatsantsa had a desperate shout for a penalty in the dying minutes as Grobler went down under a soft challenge in the box but referee Phillip Tinyani waved it away. Ryan De Jongh then had a chance at a third for Celtic but Williams pulled off a solid block, with the game ending in victory for the Free State-based outfit. — Sports Reporter/KickOff.com.