The Herald LOS ANGELES. — Tiger Woods was last night undergoing surgery after sustaining “multiple leg injuries’’ in a serious car crash here yesterday where firefighters had to use “jaws of life’’ to pluck him from his car. The golfer was driving alone near Rancho Palos Verdes when his vehicle flipped over. Fire fighters had to use a device known as the ‘jaws of life’ to break open the car and rescue him. His condition was not known but his agent Mark Steinberg told Golf Digest: “Tiger Woods was in a single-car accident this morning in California where he suffered multiple leg injuries. “He is currently in surgery and we thank you for your privacy and support.’’ It occurred shortly after 7am, local time, and no one else was injured. The cause of the crash was unknown. Woods lives in Florida but was in California for a two-day content shoot with Golf Digest/GOLFTV. He spent Monday golfing with David Spade and Jada Pinkett Smith. Sources told DailyMail.com he was driving a Genesis GV80 which had been lent to him by the car company while he was in California to host the PGA Tour’s Genesis Invitational over the weekend. In a statement, the sheriff’s department said: “On February 23, at approximately 7.12am, LASD responded to a single vehicle roll-over traffic collision on the border of Rolling Hills Estates and Rancho Palos Verdes. “On February 23, at approximately 7.12am, LASD responded to a single vehicle roll-over traffic collision on the border of Rolling Hills Estates and Rancho Palos Verdes. “The vehicle was traveling northbound on Hawthorne Boulevard, at Blackhorse Road, when it crashed. “The vehicle sustained major damage. “The driver and sole occupant was identified as PGA golfer Eldrick ‘Tiger’ Woods. “Mr. Woods was extricated from the wreck with the jaws of life by LA County firefighters and paramedics, then transported to a local hospital by ambulance for his injuries.’’ It is unclear which hospital he has been taken to, and what type of surgery he is undergoing. Just this week, he took photos with stars like Spade and Dwayne Wade — and announced his recent back surgery could keep him out of the upcoming Masters tournament in Augusta, Georgia. It’s not the first time Tiger Woods has been in a high-profile car accident — he crashed his SUV in a 2009 incident at his home in Florida. In 2017, he was arrested after cops found him passed out behind the wheel of his car. Tiger said he had taken prescription medication before the accident and didn’t realize the effect the meds would have on him. — Mailonline/TMZ.