The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo
Silver Screen
It’s a new week and back to work, back to reality. Yesterday was Valentine’s Day, I hope you had a lovely one. Remember that love conquers all. ZBC TV and DStv have been doing a good job screening some of the reality shows that are produced locally, regionally and internationally. Over the past years, reality television and dramas have dominated mainstream television, providing low-budget entertainment. Some argue that the popularity of reality programmes is rising be cause of their ability to cater for viewers’ unhealthy needs , which has led to their penetration into the prime time slots of television networks. Societal issues inspire such programmes. We can be forgiven for attributing Africa’s biggest reality show “Big Brother” for the popularity of reality TV, where different participants from different backgrounds, race and colour stay under one roof and portray their normal life. Such shows have played a very important role in making celebrities out of ordinary people while audiences are introduced to new talent. Although channels increase viewership, the reality shows have their own advantages and disadvantages. We see real people performing daredevil stunts or showcasing their skills, and viewers come to know about them and appreciate their performance. The actors do not need any godfather to become successful in showbiz, but use their talent to achieve success. Another advantage of reality shows is that they touch on numerous social issues and focus on the ills plaguing the society. For instance, they have played a very important role in enhancing women empowerment in society. The reality shows have made people more aware of what is happening in their vicinity. Some viewers are concerned that some reality shows are becoming more scripted, which kills originality and spontaneity. Initially, people fell for the bait, but now audiences understand that there is a story line. Some of the fights on the television are staged to increase the ratings of the show just like what happened on “Keeping up with The Kardashians”, which started on a good note, but later followed a script that made it look contrived. Somehow it was more of a soapie than a reality show. One critic once said that reality shows have a harmful effect on teenagers. “The new generation of reality television stars do not thrive on talent, but use sensationalism to always be in the news. One of the worst effects of their action is on teens who try to emulate their behaviour,” said the critic. Indeed, stunts that are performed on televisions under controlled conditions end up being imitated by people in real life. Some of the shows where contestants engage in anti-social behaviour to win prizes. The negative traits can manifest themselves among young people and create behavioural problems, read a review of a reality show by MyEssay Point. Here is what is trending on DStv, and some of the reality shows:  Brooklyn Nine-Nine (Season Seven) The zany New York detectives are up to quirkier and hilarious shenanigans in this latest season of Brooklyn Nine-Nine. With an impressive 94 percent audience score on Rotten Tomatoes, you’re bound to have a good laugh watching this band of eccentric misfits’ crack jokes and cause mischief, all while fighting crime…it’s just what you need to laugh the workday away. Season Seven kicks off on February 16 and airs weekdays at 6:30pm on VUZU, DStv Channel 116.  Shoot Your Shot We’ve all had a crush on someone but been too afraid to do anything about it, right? Well, Shoot Your Shot gives hopeless romantics the chance to make their big move. Join the lively Bisola Aiyeola as she plays matchmaker in this exciting new dating show every Wednesday at 6pm on Africa Magic Showcase, DStv Channel 151.  Shahs of Sunset Follow the flashy and flamboyant lives of a group of wealthy Persian-American friends partying in Los Angeles while facing the pressure of a conservative family and their traditions. This wild reality drama airs weekdays at 7:05pm on E! Entertainment, DStv Channel 124.