The Herald Rumbidzayi Zinyuke Manicaland Bureau At a time many orphanages across the country are facing difficulties in securing food, First Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa, through her Angel of Hope Foundation, has once again come to the rescue of five children’s homes in Manicaland by donating foodstuffs. The donation is part of a countrywide initiative to reachout to the vulnerable who have been feeling the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and will alleviate the challenges institutions are facing to feed the children. At least 220 children at Bakorenhema Children’s Home, Mutare Probation Hostel, Fairfield Children’s Home, Bonda Children’s Home and Kudavana Children’s Home, will benefit from the First Lady’s gesture. The Department of Social Development’s case management assistant Ms Tinotenda Bettar expressed gratitude for the donation which she said would go a long way in alleviating the plight of the children. “We are thankful top Amai for the assistance she is rendering to the homes. We have been facing challenges in trying to provide basic needs to these institutions and Amai has remembered us,” she said. Representatives from the homes said vulnerable members of the community were more exposed now due to the shortage of donor funding and donations such as the First Lady’s were welcome. Mutare Probation and Remand Hostels supervisor Mr Peter Goza said they sometimes had a big number of children appearing before the local magistrates court who needed to be taken care of. “The institution takes care of vulnerable children and has been facing challenges due to the economic challenges everyone is facing. “At the moment we have 12 children. Amai’s gesture is welcome and may she continue extending such kindness to all vulnerable children,” he said. Bonda Mission Children’s Home board member Reverend Luke Chigwanda called on other members of the community to emulate the First Lady’s gesture. Meanwhile, the province will soon hand over a consignment of 10 000 face masks donated by Vice President Constantino Chiwenga to villagers in Chimanimani. Deputy director in the office of the Minister of State for Manicaland Affairs Mr Lucky Basopo said the face masks had been delivered to the late Minister of State for Provincial Affairs and Devolution, Dr Ellen Gwaradzimba who passed away last month.