The Herald Victor Maphosa Herald Reporter A 46-YEAR-OLD man under Chief Nyamukoho in Mudzi is on the run after brutally killing his 13-year-old son whom he accused of stealing US$10. Reports are that on January 23, 2021, Shame Chimbwanda (46) and his wife left for the fields in the morning, leaving their son Messiah and two of their daughters aged six and four. As soon as they left, Messiah allegedly took US$10 belonging to his parents and took his satchel with some clothes and told his siblings that he was going to wash his clothes at a nearby river. He did not return home. Messiah only came back home on February 1, about seven days after his disappearance, and met his fate. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi said the boy was severely assaulted by his father, leading to his death. “On February 1, 2021, Messiah came back, but he went to his aunt’s place first. The aunt then informed his mother who went and took him to a prophet before taking him home. She reportedly said the son was to be cleansed of some evil spirits. “Later in the evening, Messiah’s father came home and said he wanted to discipline the boy. The boy claimed that he had gone to a local business centre. The father then took a hosepipe and assaulted him all over the body several times. He also banged him on the wall and he sustained injuries. “The wife tried to intervene, but she too was assaulted,” he said. Asst Comm Nyathi said the father only stopped assaulting the boy when he became unconscious. “He tried to resuscitate him by fanning him with a blanket to no avail. The following morning, the father told his wife that he was going out to look for a vehicle to ferry the body to hospital. He did not return prompting his wife to inform their relatives and later made a police report.” Asst Comm Nyathi said a manhunt has been launched by the police and appealed to the public for information which may lead to Chimbwanda’s arrest. “We are looking for him. We are also urging parents and guardians to use peaceful means in resolving issues or when they are disciplining their children,” he said.