The Herald Atryshia Gondo  Delton Nyarugwe
Midlands State University
There’s so much fuss over February 14 yet this fuss is misplaced. It’s so easy to forget what Valentine’s Day is all about. Valentine’s Day is supposed to be a day during which lovers show each other appreciation. It’s not always supposed to be a physical gift. It’s not really an obligation to give someone a present but for students, it is all about gifts. A day that celebrates the beauty of love has turned into a day of deception largely due to greed. Some university students can be in relationships with more than one person in order to attain more gifts on this special day. As a result gifts have lost their value as they have become they boil down to ways of showing off and mocking other people’s relationships. Valentine’s Day has caused people to lose their morals as some even offer themselves in place of gifts or in some cases emotional blackmail comes into play and people are forced into positions where they have to offer themselves. It is no secret that some women love gifts and young girls will go to any lengths to receive them, for example, staying in toxic relationships. Some will sacrifice their sanity in order to ensure they get gifts. Sometimes the relationships are dangerous. On the other hand, some young male students become victims of heartache as they are cast aside for people who offer better Valentine’s gifts. A day that is supposed to be precious to lovers has lost value due to abuse. The true essence of gifting one’s lover a token of appreciation has been lost, showing how love has become a game. With expectations like these it’s easy to set ourselves up for disappointment. Fortunately it’s possible to enjoy the day without hurt feelings or breaking the bank. ****** Keselia Nomasonto Ndlovu Midlands State University Valentine’s Day is celebrated every year by lovers through gifts or spending the day together on February 14, but with the lockdown restrictions placed until after this day, will love pass this test? Legend states that an imprisoned Valentine actually sent the first “Valentine” greeting after he fell in love with a young girl, possibly his jailor’s daughter who visited him during his confinement. It is alleged that before his death, he signed a letter “from your Valentine” and thus Valentine’s Day was born. This legend and many other legends all point to love during the month of February, which is deemed the month of love. Towards the end of January, the Zimbabwean government extended the lockdown due to the death toll and this saw Valentine’s Day being part of the lockdown days. The restrictions sparked off different sentiments among youths especially, and their concerns over the day. Through social media, the so-called gold-diggers have been named “Gamuchirai” (receivers) just to show the extent they will go in order to receive gifts on this day, regardless of the tight restrictions. Most people do not even know what Valentine’s Day means as they are only obsessed with receiving gifts from their lovers. There are others, for instance, who do not find the essence of this day but because of peer pressure are forced to participate just so that they will not be mocked or for fear of just missing out. Social media was invented for people to communicate but the youths mainly use it to publicise their “lifestyle” including posting what their lovers would have done for them on the day.  The quantity and quality of gifts one will get in this case will symbolise how much one is loved and how wealthy one’s boyfriend is. The opposite gender is exploited because they are responsible for spoiling the females as if they are the only ones who love. Zimbabwean culture labels the man as the head and somehow that is why it is expected of him to work so hard to provide for his lover and maintain his pride. Those with cars, and letters permitting them to travel, pose a threat to opposite gender because these are likely going to be taking away their ladies and present gifts to them. The boys are little defensive as they are using lockdown restrictions as an excuse for not being able to get their lovers anything. The girls, in return, point out the online shopping options for their gifts. It is very important to the girls to get something of value because, for them, it will show that they are not the side-chick but rather the main chick. This year’s Valentine’s Day is awaited with much anticipation. Those in relationships are panicking as they are not sure what their lovers have planned for them. Will relationships stand this test or will they end in tears? February 14, 2021 is going to determine how much individuals love each other. ***** Mellisa Mangena & Ivy Shingairai Murenga Midlands State University Valentine’s Day, also known as St Valentine, is a day held every February 14 where lovers get to express their affection through gifts. But where did these traditions come from? The history of Valentine’s Day is shrouded by mystery. Valentine’s Day is believed to be a date set aside in celebration of Saint Valentine, who was killed for going against Emperor Claudius II’s and marrying off the emperor’s soldiers in secret Christian ceremonies. This is believed to have marked the beginning of his reputation for believing in the importance of love. Saint Valentine was found guilty and jailed for his crimes against Claudius II. Legend has it that Saint Valentine cared for his jailors daughter and actually cured her blindness and before his execution, wrote her a love message signed “from your valentine”, an expression which is still in use today. Although the truth behind the valentine legend is murky, all the stories emphasise his appeal as a sympathetic, heroic and most importantly romantic figure. While Valentine’s Day is celebrated in most countries, different cultures have developed their own traditions for this occasion. Some view Valentine’s Day as a day of showcasing their love between family and friends whilst other traditions include leaving goodies and presents for children and acts of appreciation between friends. It is, however, most associated with romantic love, Valentine’s Day cards being exchanged, gifts or flowers, especially roses, sent with accompanying romantic messages to loved ones or couples spending time together, going for romantic dinner dates and picnics, or special home-cooked meals. There is also the breath taking decorations, mostly in the colours red and white, which are the main colours of Valentine’s Day, symbolising the love being spread throughout the occasion. ***** Sithandazile Tshuma Midlands State University All youths agree that relationships are hard. We even compare them to a battlefield. The advent of Covid -19 has worsened this war. In order for love relations to work well, many people say one needs to prioritize communication, respect and see each other physically once in a while. Communication through various social platforms is not as effective as face-to-face conversations. This is because people fail to comprehend the intended messages resulting in unnecessary conflicts between parties. Students have turned to meeting with their partners in secret places in the dark since lockdown regulations ban gatherings where partners would meet freely. Meeting in secret places in the dark gives the parties privacy and they end up conforming to their hormones. The short time stolen to be together gives parties less time to make informed decisions. They don’t use protection, leading to unwanted pregnancies or even worse, sexually transmitted infections. 