The Herald Herald Correspondent
THE current nation-wide lockdown has left many young people counting the days when they will return to the classroom. Others have found refuge in online lessons, while waiting for “a return to normal”. Yet others, have elected to explore and be creative. For 17-year-old Kay Yash, from Bulawayo, the lockdown helped her discover and establish her creative side. In order to manage the downtime or the time in-between reading for her examinations, she took to writing. This was slowed down by the need to prepare for her examinations. But in August, she returned to the task for a period of intensity, successfully completing her manuscript. By the beginning of October last year, she was done with the manuscript on its way to the publisher. “A Wave of Emotions”, was ready towards Christmas last year. The book is available on Amazon. It traces the journey of a tear-away high-school girl, who falls in love, is caught in a wave of emotions and is unable to reign it in. Drawing largely from the writer’s observation during her high school days, she focuses on the impact of puppy love. Interest in writing, for Yash had always been there. It manifested itself in short story writing, participating in essay competitions and public speaking and debating. These activities encouraged her to go farther. However, there were moments when she encountered a writer’s block. Fortunately her siblings were always on hand, encouraging her to soldier on. Feedback also helped spur her own. “I think because of the current lockdown, most people are spending more time at home and reading and writing has become some of the ‘to-do’ things,” explains the Bulawayo Tourism and Hospitality Management student. “For me, newspapers can be more relevant to young people when there is diversity in content and young people see things which go in line with their age and their activities and habits being reflected in what is being published, because it motivates them, especially during these times.” It has not been all smooth sailing. The journey has had its ups and downs, but she insists: “All this makes me proud that I have remained committed to the talent.” Although, principally a prose writer, her current focus is on a collection of poems, meant as a guide to young people up to adolescent stage.