The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE fast bowler, Kyle Jarvis, has shared his ordeal, in which he had to fight for his life, after he battled the deadly combination of malaria and coronavirus. The 31-year-old has not played any competitive cricket since featuring in a Test match for Zimbabwe against Sri Lanka at Harare Sports Club in January last year. He revealed he will need three more months before he returns to action. The seamer was conspicuous by his absence when Zimbabwe Cricket named a 32-member squad to prepare for the upcoming series against Afghanistan. “For those, that have sent messages, thank you. Below is a quick thread as to where I’ve been and why I’ve been so quiet of late,” he said on his Twitter handle. “Tuesday 26th of January, I started displaying all the usual Covid-19 symptoms so I immediately isolated at home. “Unfortunately, over the next four days, my condition worsened. “On the Saturday morning, I could no longer carry on at home and rushed to Borrowdale Trauma (Centre). “On arrival, I had a heart rate of 225 and wasn’t in a good way. Further tests were done and I came to find out that I had Covid-19, malaria and tickbite fever. “The next four days were spent in treatment, and under the care of Doctor Solanki and his team at Borrowdale Trauma Centre. “I’m back on my feet and recovered from all three illnesses. The damage to my lungs isn’t too extensive and I can be back training, within three months. “Thanks to Doctor Solanki and his team for all they did, I’m lucky to be here.’’ The fast bowler will not take part in the upcoming tour of Afghanistan, which will be held on neutral venue in the United Arab Emirates, next month. The Chevrons are set to play two Tests and three T20Is, against Afghanistan, during the tour. Zimbabwe Cricket have picked two regional teams, Southerns and Notherns, to prepare for the tour. The sides, which will clash in all formats, as part of the preparations, will begin with a four-day practice match this week. Meanwhile, the Lady Chevrons will be out to try and keep the series alive today, when they play Pakistan, in their second 50-over match at Harare Sports Club. The side lost the opening match by 178 runs at the Harare Sports Club on Tuesday. The visitors batted first and reached 255/6 in their 50 overs. The captain, Javeria Khan and all-rounder, Aliya Riaz, proved too good for the hosts as they made 81, off 116 balls, and 87, off 74, respectively. Zimbabwe, who were playing for the first time in two years, could not keep up with the visitors’ bowling attack, as they were blown away for 77 runs. Skipper Anne-Mary Musonda said they need to tighten their bowling, and also improve their batting, going into the second of the three-match series. Both Zimbabwe and Pakistan women’s teams are using the series as part of their preparations for the World Cup qualifiers coming up later this year. Zimbabwe Women’s Squad Mary-Anne Musonda (captain), Ashley Ndiraya, Precious Marange, Pelajia Mujaji, Chiedza Dhururu, Modester Mupachikwa, Kellies Ndlovu, Tasmeen Granger, Esther Mbofana, Francesca Chipare, Loryn Phiri, Nomvelo Sibanda, Josephine Nkomo, Audrey Mazvishaya, Christabel Chatonzwa Pakistan women’s Squad Nahida Khan, Javeria Khan(c), Omaima Sohail, Kainat Imtiaz, Nida Dar, Aliya Riaz, Sidra Nawaz(w), Fatima Sana, Diana Baig, Nashra Sandhu, Anam Amin, Muneeba Ali, Aiman Anwer, Ayesha Zafar, Sadia Iqbal, Syeda Aroob Shah, Ayesha Naseem