The Herald ON Thursday, Warriors coach, Zdravko Logarusic, finally announced a bloated squad of 38 players, which will go into camp for our final two AFCON 2022 qualifiers against Botswana and Zambia, next month. After delaying the announcement for about three days, as he juggled with complications related to securing guarantees, as to whether some of his Euro-based stars will be available, the Croat finally played his cards. He went with the tide, in choosing the regulars who usually represent us, while also bringing in some of the fringe players, who have been knocking on the door. But, he also made it very clear that he expects about 10 of his stars, especially those based in Europe, to struggle to answer the call to serve their nation in these decisive qualifiers. The main concern remains with those based in the United Kingdom, including star midfielder Marvelous Nakamba, the only member of the Warriors who plays in the English Premiership. Then, there is Tendayi Darikwa, who plays for Wigan Athletic, in the second-tier of the English football league, who was probably the best player for the Warriors, in their last AFCON qualifier against African champions Algeria, in Harare, in November last year. Young fullback, Jordan Zemura, who is at English Championship side, Bournemouth, and the pair of David Moyo (Hamilton Academical, Scotland), Brendan Galloway (Luton, England) and Admiral Muskwe (Wycombe Wanderers, England) complete the British-based crew targeted by Loga for the final two matches. Tough requirements, including mandatory 10-day airport hotel quarantines, have been prescribed by British authorities for those travelling into the UK from countries like Zimbabwe, Botswana and Zambia. This means the clubs, who are not mandated to release their players, might decide to hold onto them, out of fear they will miss some crucial matches, on their return, as they deal with the quarantine requirements. “Usually, our list of players should be made up of 28 players, that is three goalkeepers and 25 infield players. We made it much bigger because we are facing a few (potential) problems,” said Loga in a statement. “We don’t know what (the situation) will be in England, Spain and USA because some clubs have declined to release players because of the Covid-19 policies there. “We have problems with some injured regular players, whom we used in our games against Algeria, especially Khama (Billiat), (Marshall) Munetsi and (Knowledge) Musona (who are all battling injuries). “We have more than 10 players whose availability is in doubt.” But, it appears, it’s the UK-based stars, who are at real risk of failing to report for camp, next month, to play for their country in the two matches which will determine, whether or not, we book our place at the next AFCON finals, in Cameroon. The tough requirements, laid out by British authorities, have made it difficult, if not impossible, for the players to take the gamble to leave their bases, in the United Kingdom, and fly to their countries, for these international assignments. Already, we have seen Nakamba’s teammate, influential goalkeeper, Emiliano Martinez, being barred by the club, from flying to Argentina, to represent his national team, next month. We have a real problem, with this arrangement, especially given that we now face the possibility that some of our best players might not be available to play for the Warriors, in the last two matches. These are not dead rubbers, given they have a direct impact in whether, or not, we will be in Cameroon and, for other teams, like ours, to be deprived of their best players, because of circumstances beyond our control, is tantamount to altering the level of the playing field. It’s the same as tilting the playing field, to ensure that our team is at a disadvantage, given they will be in a severely weakened state, while boosting the prospects of our opponents, Botswana and Zambia. It’s like punishing us, for having a productive football system, good enough to produce a player capable of playing in the English Premiership, the Scottish Premiership and the English Championship, while boosting the prospects of those who have failed to do that. One would have expected us to get some sympathy, from either the Confederation of African Football, or FIFA, who have the power to change the dates of these fixtures, and ensure that the matches are played at a time when no team has to field a weakened side. That’s why we can’t understand why our ZIFA leaders didn’t see an opportunity, to petition both CAF and FIFA, asking that, in the event our UK-based players are unable to come for the matches next month, our games should be moved to the next window in June. After all, the expectation is that by then, because of the warmer summer climate in the United Kingdom, and across Europe, Covid-19 infections would have fallen significantly, and authorities, in those countries, would have relaxed some of the punishing measures, which are currently in force. And, more importantly, the leagues in the UK, and across Europe, would be having their summer break, which then eliminates the problem of clubs there, having to withhold their players, for fear that when they come back, they would be forced into a 10-day quarantine, and miss some important matches. Sadly, we haven’t heard the kind of noise, which we expected, from our football leaders, who seem resigned to fielding their weakest team, even if it means this might cost us a place at the next AFCON finals. Maybe, they don’t care, as much as we do, what happens to the Warriors.