The Herald Arts Reporter The National Arts Council of Zimbabwe (NACZ) has postponed this year’s edition of the National Arts Merit Awards (NAMA) scheduled for February 27 to next month. NACZ Director Nicholas Moyo said the postponement is in light of the level 4 lockdown conditions announced by the government in January to curb the spiralling COVID-19 cases in the country. “NACZ would like to advise stakeholders in the cultural and creative sector, sponsors and the nation at large that the #NAMA Legends @ 40 awards will now be held on the 27th of March 2021.” Moyo said the ceremony that will honour 40 living legends had been pushed forward by a month to allow the event organisers and suppliers to make up for the downtime during the much more stringent lockdown conditions which include reduced business time and travel restrictions. “The NAMA process includes various planning and implementations stages that were disrupted by the implementation of the lockdown and for us to host a credible event it has become necessary to push forward the date to allow for the smooth running of the awards”, Mr Moyo said. The Director also said the #NAMA legends@40 a mostly virtual event following the COVID restrictions on gatherings. “NACZ is now working with various service providers to make sure that the event is available to all Zimbabwean across multiple viewing channels”, he said. Mr Moyo also announced that the national arts mother had engaged various Arts associations and captains in the sector who had submitted names of legends in their respective sectors as potential recipients of the honorary awards. “The process of receiving nominations has been closed. The jury is now in the process of reviewing the entries after which they will submit their list of nominees for consideration by the board,” he said. The NACZ is this year hosting the #NAMA legends@40 Awards under the theme ‘Our Legacy, Our Pride’ to honour forty (40) legends in celebration of the country’s 40 years of Independence.