The Herald Two big-spending Egyptian football clubs have been confirmed as having the financial muscle and the need to pry away Zimbabwe international striker Khama Billiat from South African giants Kaizer Chiefs. Interest in Billiat has again been a subject of the transfer window as he nears the end of what has been a largely disappointing three seasons at Kaizer Chiefs. Just a single goal this term, three last season and 11 in his first, means Chiefs haven’t had the kind of return they had hoped for from the 30-year-old. Chiefs are contemplating massive restructuring at the end of this campaign and would be tempted to cash in on Billiat, with KickOff.com being tipped off that Pyramids and Al Ahly are capable of paying up to US$1.5-million (approximately R22.37-million) for his services. An offer in that region would entice Chiefs into letting go of the Zimbabwean forward, who is among the highest earners at the club.
“Talks are already in progress for the next transfer window and the only clubs that can afford Billiat at the moment are Pyramids and Al Ahly,” an Egyptian agent who did not wish to be named tells KickOff.com today.
“Pyramids can pay any transfer figure because they have the money and love spending. They can easily pay USD1.5-million and even USD2-million if they feel they really need the player. In this case Pyramids should be more interested because they don’t care about the age of players as well but just like big-profile players.
“Billiat can as well earn US$800 000 per annum here in Egypt as a big-profile player.
“With Zamalek, they are out of the picture for now because they have already signed players in that position and don’t have the budget for a big-money signing. “With Al Ahly they will obviously be guided by Pitso Mosimane in how much they should spend to bring in Billiat. Mosimane has worked with the player before and so knows him very well and he has deep knowledge of the South African market in terms of what can be paid for players,” explains the agent. Billiat has now spent 11 years playing in South Africa having arrived as a teenager who thrilled at Ajax Cape Town and then became a success at Mamelodi Sundowns. – KickOff.com