The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE international midfielder, Perfect Chikwende, feels football was the biggest winner after he was finally given the International Transfer Certificate to begin his professional career in Tanzania. Chikwende said the last two weeks, when the ITC was blocked because of the bickering between his previous Zimbabwean employers, Bulawayo Chiefs and FC Platinum, were emotionally draining. The player’s agent, George Deda, and FC Platinum, confirmed yesterday the 27-year old has finally been cleared, after all the sticking issues were resolved. The attacking midfielder yesterday told The Herald he was a relieved man and will now concentrate on delivering the best for his new club Simba SC. “I am overwhelmed with joy,” he said. “I must say the last two weeks were very difficult for me but I had to find ways to cope with whatever was happening. “But, this is the best news ever. I give credit to the Almighty because I am someone who believes in prayer. “I also want to thank my agent, George Deda, for his hard work and the Footballers Union of Zimbabwe for their role in making sure the matter was resolved amicably. “Now, I have to put all my energies together on making sure that I do my best for Simba SC.’’ Chikwende signed a two-year deal with the Tanzanian champions last month from FC Platinum. But, Chiefs barred ZIFA from issuing the player’s international clearance, arguing FC Platinum should compensate them, since Chikwende was on loan at the Zvishavane side. Chikwende’s contract with Chiefs expired at the end of 2020 but, since there was no football in Zimbabwe last year, ZIFA — in consultation with football stakeholders — said there was room for negotiations for contracts that were due to lapse last year to overlap into this year. Based on that, Chiefs were arguing the 2020 loan agreement between FC Platinum and Chiefs for the player was still binding. “We are pleased that ZIFA have seen reason for the player to continue with his career,’’ said Deda. “The laws of football state that a player should not be disadvantaged while there are other processes that are being followed. “So, in this case, we had a situation where even if ZIFA had not issued the certificate, FIFA were going to do it and that could have resulted in both teams losing out because he could have been cleared as a free agent. “But, that’s not for me to say. “All what I can say is Chikwende himself is happy, the Simba SC family is happy and I am also happy. The player is now able to do what he is supposed to do and what he knows best.’’ Chikwende caught the eye of the Tanzanians when he played a starring role in FC Platinum’s 1-0 win over Simba SC in the first leg of the CAF Champions League first round tie at the National Sports Stadium in December. He was also on target when FC Platinum beat seasoned campaigners Costa do Sol of Mozambique 2-0 in the second leg of the preliminary round tie, to secure a 4-1 aggregate win for the Zvishavane side. The attacking forward has already settled in Tanzania after featuring in a four-team cup tournament organised by the Tanzanians. The Super Cup tournament, which also featured Sudanese giants Al Hilal and TP Mazembe of DRC, was organised by Simba to help them prepare for the Champions League group stage matches. Chikwende made an immediate impression when he scored on debut in the 2-1 win over Al Hilal. “The first thing that excited me the most was not scoring on debut but playing in front of such big crowds is something else,’’ said Chikwende. “The Simba SC fans were happy to see me play and I was also excited about such powerful support. “My teammates have also been very welcoming. They have accommodated me very well and we hope to work hard together.’’ Chikwende will not be eligible for the Champions League because of the CAF rules which prohibit players from featuring for two clubs in the same campaign. “I feel very disappointed about that but rules are rules. They have to be followed. “I just wish my teammates the best and I will focus on the games that I am available,” he said.