The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter
WITH just over three months left before the closing date for marathon qualification to the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games, National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe director for coaching, talent identification and development, Lisimati Phakamile says time is not on their side. The closing date for marathon is 31 May and the ongoing uncertainty around qualifying races is not helping the situation. Some races are being canceled or postponed and Phakamile said athletes will have to try and qualify on their first attempt if they get any qualifying race in the remaining period. “We had a team that was in camp in Vumba and we still managed to maintain that team in camp again at the ZRP headquarters that is Morris Depot. We have a team from the police that has been working and is consistently training. “Unfortunately these long-distance runners looking at that their qualifying period should be closing May it’s actually a very tough and tricky situation where we are saying the first competitions or whichever competitions that we come across these guys should just make the grade on one-shot or on one attempt,” said Phakamile. Phakamile noted that failure to qualify on the first attempt may complicate their chances since it’s not guaranteed that they will get another chance. “Failing to make the grade on the first-ever competition that they get to might be a bit tricky and difficult for us to try again because of this pandemic. “We are actually running out of time as a nation on qualifying because of the lockdown and the strictness on movement and the cancellation of many competitions around the world. “Around our region, competitions have been canceled and it’s difficult for the road runners to find competitions to compete and also qualify,” said Phakamile. South Africa-based Rutendo Nyahora, who competed at the 2016 Games, Munyaradzi Jari, Isaac Mpofu, Ngonidzashe Ncube, Olivia Chitate and Fortunate Chidzivo are all vying for qualification. Veteran female long-distance runner Tabitha Tsatsa also added her voice and said there is a need to keep encouraging the athletes. “I am encouraging those athletes who are working so hard to try and qualify for the Olympics to not lose hope, to keep training and work hard and maybe they will get a race soon. “Some of the race they were targeting are being canceled, so it’s a thing that demotivates them because I have been there and I understand how it feels.  So it’s like all the doors have been closed. “Maybe our national association can try and do something to get some races for them because it’s so painful that you train so hard hoping to qualify for the Olympics and not get a race,” said Tsatsa. The national association is working with the athletes and coaches to try and find competitions for the athletes.