The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter
Zimbabwe Karate Union technical director Kumbirai Musinami says they are considering engaging the Zimbabwe Olympic Committee for anti-doping programmes for their members. The karate mother body has a number of programmes they are looking forward to work on this year including improving administration and educating athletes on the importance of anti-doping. Musinami said with fighters training at home and less activity some have taken solace in drug abuse. “This year we have got a number of programmes lined up. Most of them we are aiming to improve our administration and our fighters in terms of doping. “We shall be engaging ZOC so that we can be helped in terms of doping because with most of our fighters training at home, we witnessed an increase in the problem of abuse of drugs and all those substances that are not allowed. “So we are taking a step to try and educate our constituency in terms of karatekas, especially us as administrators and conscientise (our members) on the dangers of using drugs and the use of marijuana. “So that’s one of our target this year to try and mould our athletes so that when they go to competitions we don’t have doping challenges. We want to try and implement all the doping rules and regulations in our sport. This helps us when we go out there onto the international world,” said Musinami. Most of the events in terms of competitions will depend on whether the environment is safe for athletes and everyone involved. “Our programme this year also includes the Second So-Kyokushin World Tournament in Japan. The date has not been confirmed yet but we are hopeful that it will be held later this year bearing in mind that Covid-19 is a determining factor. Hopefully, it doesn’t affect us as it did last year. “We also have lined up our Champion of Champions later in November. Hopefully, we will be out of Covid-19. “Our athletes and fighters who make up the bulk of the team are training but they are training at home. They are getting online lessons from their instructors and hopefully as soon as all restrictions are lifted up we will be able to come together and see where we are. “Also regionally there are some events that have been lined up. We have the Thokoza tournament in South Africa. Hopefully, that will be our first event to attend to,” said Musinami. “It should be around June, July thereabout and we anticipate the situation would have improved and we can safely travel to South Africa for that event,” said Musinami. The regional tournament attracts most of the top fighters in Africa and participants use it to prepare for international events.