The Herald TAMPA BAY. — Tom Brady’s position as the greatest of all time was already secure even before he led the Tampa Bay Buccaneers to an emphatic victory against the Kansas City Chiefs on Sunday. But the widely heralded NFL GOAT’s achievement in winning a seventh Super Bowl may just be the greatest of the lot. “It’s hands down one of the greatest sporting accomplishments in sports history,” said his team-mate Rob Gronkowski. “I’m not going to say it’s the greatest but it’s up there.” That’s a huge statement when you consider what Brady’s done in his career —appearing in 10 Super Bowls with five MVP awards, that miraculous comeback from 28-3 down against the Atlanta Falcons in 2017 and a perfect 16-0 regular season with the New England Patriots in 2007. Brady’s now won a Super Bowl in three different decades and won more titles than any team has managed in history, but winning it with this team, this way, in this season of all seasons merits special consideration. And all his previous achievements came alongside Bill Belichick at the Patriots, and maybe there was a point to prove as he packed up his things and headed to Florida. At 43, Brady went to a new home, new team, new coach and new scheme — perhaps you can teach an old dog new tricks. He took a huge gamble trading the Patriots’ winning ways for a Bucs outfit without a play-off appearance in 13 years. The move came during a global pandemic that left him unable to connect with his team-mates in his first pre-season as Tampa Bay struggled — with defeat by the Chiefs at the end of November leaving them at 7-5 just before their bye week. They’ve won every game since. They won three away games in the play-offs and finished off with a record three straight wins over Super Bowl MVP-winning quarterbacks in Drew Brees, Aaron Rodgers and Patrick Mahomes. ‘The greatest professional athlete we have seen in history’ “Tom Brady should be the first player in history to be in the Hall of Fame while he’s still playing,” said two-time Super Bowl champion Osi Umenyiora on BBC One. — BBC Sport.