The Herald LONDON. — Racism in football is a bigger problem than abusive messages seen on social media, says Facebook Content Policy Manager, Fadzai Madzingira. This followed Instagram’s announcement of new measures, to tackle online hate, on its platform. High-profile players, in both the men’s and women’s game, have been victims of racist abuse on social media, in recent weeks. Facebook-owned Instagram announced new measures, including the removal of accounts, to prevent abusive messages on its platform and developing new controls to help reduce the abuse people see. “The changes we have announced today are part of a larger strategy of our commitment to more accountability and commitment to stopping this hate,’’ Madzingira, a Zimbabwean executive, told Sky Sports News. “They go with previous features which we have rolled out. It’s all a small part in stopping this abuse. “But, racism in football is bigger than what happens on social media platforms. There are conversations that need to happen offline, as well, if we are all going to take responsibility for stopping this hate.” The British government has said it will change the law, to make social media companies more accountable for malicious content, which could include substantial fines. Digital Secretary, Oliver Dowden, said: “For too long the world’s most popular and powerful social media companies have failed to tackle the stream of horrific racist attacks on their platforms. “I welcome Instagram’s improved policies but racist abuse is still a fact of life for too many people and more has to be done across the board to stamp it out. “We’re introducing a new age of accountability for these companies through our upcoming Online Safety Bill and this could see huge fines for firms which fail to clearly and transparently protect their users.” Madzingira said Facebook and Instagram encourage governments to open up dialogue with them and believes both need to work together to make progress on tackling the issue. “We welcome conversations with governments and other stakeholders both on and offline. “We have teams inside the company that are well engaged within these discussions, whether that is the Online Harms Bill right through to initiatives on the ground and how we can encourage people to report this behaviour. “We encourage conversations with governments.” Madzingira said social media companies would be “narcissistic” if they thought they could single-handedly resolve online racist abuse. “It would be inappropriate for me to guarantee these new measures will make a difference. “Racism on social media is very much mirroring what is happening offline. “As much as we play our part to hold people more accountable for their abuse, we also know this a small part of a larger conversation. “How do we continue to talk about racism in sport, in our communities? “A broader conversation, whether it is with non-government organisations, football authorities, governments, we need to stop this behaviour. “We are not narcissistic enough to believe that a social media platform can stop racism. “What we want to do is, at least, ensure that Instagram is a safe space and people do not have to deal with abuse like some people have been experiencing lately.” Madzingira says the use of government-issued identification can become problematic, especially for people in ethnic minorities, who do not have access to necessary documentation but want to engage with the platform. “I totally understand the frustration that comes with (clamour for IDs). I am Zimbabwean, I didn’t have an ID until I was around 18 or 19. “If you think about the UK, or the US and access to ID, it is more often women of colour, who do not have access to that type of government paperwork. — Sky Sports.