The Herald LONDON. — Former world heavyweight boxing champion Mike Tyson has warned Anthony Joshua that he will be at a huge disadvantage against Tyson Fury because he “telegraphs his punches”. The £200 million showdown took another step closer to becoming a reality last week after Joshua’s promoter Eddie Hearn confirmed to Sportsmail that provisional details for the undisputed heavyweight clash were sent to Fury’s team on Tuesday. And as the anticipation continues to build for one of the biggest fights in British boxing history, heavyweight icon “Iron Mike” Tyson was asked for his thoughts on how the bout could play out. “It’s very interesting, Joshua is a masterful puncher. But you can see his punches coming, he telegraphs his punches,” Tyson told Hearn on his BBC No Passion, No Point podcast. “And that’s just a recipe for disaster if you’re fighting Tyson Fury and you’re telegraphing your punches — to a guy whose 6ft 7in, come on.” Last month, Joshua showed his true punching power when he stopped mandatory challenger Kubrat Pulev with a ninth-round knock-out to retain his WBO, IBF, IBO, WBA heavyweight titles and set up a fight with Fury. Fury hasn’t been in action since stopping Deontay Wilder last February, where he beat the American in the seventh to claim the WBC title — meaning all heavyweight titles will be on the line when the two fighters meet in May or June this year. And while the focus is solely on the two Brits, Tyson believes the current heavyweight landscape is great — with a lot of talent in the division. “I think there are a lot of great heavyweight fighters in the division. Anyone who says that it’s a bad division is just jealous, it’s exciting,” Tyson said. “Tyson can fight Wilder again and I like to see guys fight each other over and over again, if they’re exciting fighters. (Wilder) did (make mistakes), but if the fans want it, that’s what it’s all about. “Tyson Fury is a fan fighter. The fans are in love with him, he has the momentum now. In England, Anthony Joshua is a big thing. But Tyson Fury has got the people now, he’s got the masses. They follow him like he’s a messiah.” — Mailonline.