The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter Yadah . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (2) 2 CAPS Utd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(1) 1 CAPS United coach, Darlington Dodo, was left fuming after claiming referee, Lawrence Zimondi, awarded a soft penalty which made the difference in this Chibuku Super Cup match at National Sports Stadium yesterday. With the scores tied at 1-1, Zimondi adjudged that defender Munyaradzi Diro-Nyenye had used too much force, to obstruct Yadah winger Vincent Sango in the box, and pointed to the spot. Yadah captain, Godknows Mangani, converted with ease, sending the goalkeeper the wrong way. It proved to be the key moment of the match as the Chibuku Super Cup returned after weeks of having been shelved, as sport continues to find itself in the eye of a storm, amid the Covid-19 pandemic. While, in all fairness, the decision by the referee appeared harsh, Dodo knows his men simply did not come to the party and they were, for long periods, a poor imitation of the Green Machine. Their co-ordination was poor, the support of the man on the ball was non-existent, now and again they appeared in a hurry to just pump the ball forward and there was no pattern, in their play. It was hard to tell they had spent even a day, planning how they would approach this game and, for long periods, they were just a collection of individuals, trying to play a game, rather than a team. Just as well, there were no fans at the giant stadium. Had the CAPS United supporters been in attendance, it’s clear they would not have taken kindly to such a lifeless show, from their men. Interestingly, they had started well, getting the early lead, through their man-of-the-moment, Ishmael Wadi. The forward powered into the opposition area, within the first five minutes, and had the presence of mind to clip the ball, beyond the Yadah ‘keeper, to thrust his team into the lead. However, rather than seize the initiative, from there, CAPS United retreated into a shell, and even Wadi, who has set some good standards, appeared lost, after his golden moment. Yadah, who have impressed in this tournament, fought back and equalised in the 18th minute, with a beauty from Tanaka Shandirwa. Then, the decisive moment arrived, and the game swung the way of the Miracle Boys who, suddenly, find themselves in second spot, on the table, with realistic chances, of making the semi-finals. “I think we had a good start and that is how we planned the game,’’ said Dodo. “Unfortunately, when we scored we slowed the tempo of the game. “Our opponents then capitalised on that. We then conceded but, when it was 1-1, it was okay, that’s football. We were trying to re-organise but the decision about the penalty is sad because that was the turning point. “It decided the game. “That decision demotivates opponents and if things are going to be like that, it’s sad. We put a lot of effort (trying) to build these things.”CAPS United have now dropped into third place, on the six-team table, following this defeat. “We will try to regroup and see what we can achieve at the end of the day,’’ said Dodo. “We are still in with a chance and we will try to retain maximum concentration.” Yadah coach, Genesis Mangombe, said his team now have a huge chance of qualifying to the next stage, after their second win on the bounce, but wants his players to stay focused. “It’s still a long way to go for us,” said Mangombe. “We played good football today (yesterday) and this is what we need to do going forward. We have put ourselves in a very good position and we need to maintain the momentum. “Our next game, against Dynamos, is also massive but, for now, we will celebrate this victory. Teams Yadah: P. Nyabunga,B. Chayambuka, G. Mangani, L. Mucheto, B. Kadamanja, V. Sango (I. Sadiki 58th min) J. Mutembedza (P. Kafelapanjila 72nd min), A. Kambanje( F. Binzi 59th min), G. Mukambi, T. Shandirwa (T. Kabanda 84th min)N. Mhlanga CAPS United: T. Mateyaunga, M. Diro-Nyenye, M. Kunyarimwe (T. Jaravani 13th min), C. Mavhurume, W. Tafa, E. Karembo, R. Hachiro (R. Chitiyo 46th min), I. Nyoni (A. Tavarwisa 58th min), I. Wadi (J. Gwara 87th min) , B. Sarupinda, J. Thulani