The Herald RIO DE JANEIRO. — Star forward Neymar set up Lucas Paqueta to score the only goal as hosts Brazil beat Peru 1-0 on Monday to qualify for the Copa America final. The semi-final was a repeat of the last final, two years ago, when a Brazil team shorn of the injured Neymar also triumphed on home soil. “I want Argentina. I’m supporting Argentina because I have friends there and Brazil will win the final,” said Neymar. “Paqueta is a great player, he’s getting better in every game and in every game with the national team,” he said about the 23-year-old match winner, who plays his club football for Lyon in France. “He’s just had a great season with his club and is showing that he can be a very important player for the Brazilian national team.” Brazil totally dominated the first half at the empty Nilton Santos stadium in Rio but had to survive some nervous moments after the break before securing a spot in the final. They opened up Peru on eight minutes as Paqueta’s pass sent Richarlison in behind the defense, but after beating goalkeeper Pedro Gallese to the ball, the forward tried to pull it back to Neymar who blazed high and wide under pressure. Gallese spilt a fierce Casemiro free-kick from distance but gathered the loose ball before winger Everton could turn in the rebound. Brazil were turning the screw and Everton cut in off the right flank but shot straight at Gallese. The Peruvian shot-stopper was the busiest player on the pitch in the first quarter and after saving another Casemiro piledriver from distance he made an incredible double point blank save from Neymar and then Richarlison. And when Gallese suffered a rush of blood to the head and charged out of his area only to be beaten to the ball by Richarlison, Brazil couldn’t capitalise as Peru’s defenders threw themselves in front of Everton’s shot. Peru were non-existant as an attacking force and when they did manage to win a corner just after the half hour, they ended up playing the ball all the way back to Gallese. — AFP.