The Herald XINHUA. – Laos hopes to continuously strengthen the traditional Laos-China friendship based on their shared ideal of socialism, Thongloun Sisoulith, general secretary of the Lao People’s Revolutionary Party Central Committee and Lao president, has said. Extending congratulations on the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China (CPC), Thongloun told Xinhua in a recent interview that “the Lao party, government and people feel greatly pleased to see that the Chinese party, government and the brotherly Chinese people have made great achievements.” “China’s leapfrog development, results in rising influences in the world and (it is) becoming a model for the world’s socio-economic development,” the president said. “The CPC has been unswervingly following the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics, pushing forward the industrialisation and modernisation of the country, which presents important references for the Lao party and government, and provides inexhaustible impetus for the causes to defend and build the country in Laos,” said Thongloun. He stressed that the CPC has led the Chinese people to score a complete victory in the fight against poverty and to realise its first centenary goal – building a moderately prosperous society in all respects. In the face of the Covid-19 epidemic in early 2020, Xi Jinping, General Secretary of the CPC Central Committee, personally took charge of the national response, which has achieved effective containment of the virus and the quick resumption of production activities, Thongloun added. “The series of China’s brilliant achievements have fully demonstrated the great advantages of the leadership of the CPC and the socialist system,” Thongloun said, adding that China has become an example of success for developing countries around the world, including Laos. Noting that this year marks the 60th anniversary of the diplomatic ties between Laos and China, Thongloun said the two sides have seen their traditional friendship continuously develop during the 60 years, with cooperation in various fields deepened, bringing tangible benefits to the two peoples, throughout which the two parties, countries and peoples have also built high-level mutual trust. “The Lao side will actively implement the agreements and consensus reached by the two parties and the two countries, deepen the building of the Laos-China community with a shared future, and strengthen the cooperation with China in the international community” to promote regional and world peace, cooperation and development, he noted. “We firmly hold the belief that under the strong leadership of the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at the core, the Chinese dream of (great) national rejuvenation will be realised,” Thongloun said. On the remarkable occasion of the CPC’s centenary, Thongloun said he wishes China success in achieving its second centenary goal of building China into a great modern socialist country in all respects and achieving national rejuvenation.