The Herald THANK YOU MESSAGE FROM FIRST LADY OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE: AMAI AUXILLIA MNANGAGWA: I come to you Zimbabweans with humility and gratitude after going through this seven day prayer and fasting period. Fasting for seven days is no mean task because it denies the body various nutritional elements, but the hand of God held and kept us focused on the goal of confronting our challenges through prayer. As the Psalmist in Psalm 107:29 states that the Lord is able to calm storms, we believe the Covid-19 which is raging across the globe will soon subside as normalcy returns. We also draw our confidence from a New Testament story where Jesus was awakened by his disciples who needed help in a storm-tossed sea.  When He declared and called for calmness the raging storm gave in and there was peace (Luke 8:22-25). Beloved Zimbabweans, God answers prayers and inclines an ear to challenges afflicting his children hence our prayers were not in vain. Let us keep the faith that through prayers, reports of ritual killings, gender-based violence and all forms of violence, rising crime rates and many other ills on our concerns list will be dealt with. Once again, I wish to thank the nation for joining me in this prayer and fasting journey which we undertook from our respective locations because of Covid-19. Reports indicated that the whole nation was praying and wailing before our Creator. The whole nation heeded the call to prayer. Our God will reward us for inviting him into our lives and our country at large. Tine chivimbo chekuti Mwari vanonzwa nekupindura minyengetero yedu. For Jesus state in Mark 11:24, ‘Therefore I say unto you, what things soever ye desire, when you pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them’. SaAmai, I appeal to you beloved Zimbabweans to keep praying without ceasing as encouraged by the Apostle Paul while addressing the Thessalonian church, 1 Thessalonians 5:17 which reads ‘Pray without ceasing’ and remember that as the mother of the nation I will always call on you to join me deal with varying matters as they arise with time. God Bless Zimbabwe as you prosper in Spirit and Soul. With God nothing is impossible. Ngatiruramire pamunamato Mwari vanotinzwa.