The Herald Thupeyo Muleya
Beitbridge Bureau
Zanu PF chairman for Matabeleland South Cde Rabelani Choeni (71), who succumbed to Covid-19 complications last Friday, was laid to rest at his rural home in Malusungani village in Beitbridge West constituency yesterday. A few mourners, mainly close relatives led by Zanu PF Politburo member Ambassador Arron Maboyi and his wife Ruth who is Deputy Minister of Home Affairs and Cultural Heritage attended the funeral. The burial was overseen by officials from the Ministry of Health and Child Care in line with Covid-19 protocols. Addressing mourners, Ambassador Maboyi described Cde Choeni, who was his nephew, as a brave and hardworking man and urged Zimbabweans, especially youths, to remain principled. “We grew up under a repressive regime, and today we are gathered here to lay to rest one of our gallant sons who took it upon himself together with fellow liberators to emancipate the black majority from the colonial yoke,” said Ambassador Maboyi. “Their main objective was to ensure that all Zimbabweans should have a say in matters concerning community and national economic development. “He (Cde Choeni) was one of the first people to take up arms against the settler regime and we say thank you to him and the rest of those who went to the war including the Head of State (President Mnangagwa).” Ambassador Maboyi said Zimbabweans should be innovative and fully exploit their natural resources for economic development from the grassroots level. Cde Choeni wanted the nation to fully understand the importance of employing home grown solutions to transform their lives. “We need to preach to our people that our resources are our strength. We must refuse to have our resources exploited by other people from other continents. “They have their own resources from wherever they come. As Zimbabwe, let’s build our economy from what we have, which is what my nephew and other ex-combatants fought for,” said Ambassador Maboyi. Family representative Mr Ntuweleni Choeni said Cde Choeni had contributed to the development of Beitbridge, especially in terms of agriculture and infrastructure. He is survived by his wife Lydia and five grandchildren.