The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
DYNAMOS forward King Nadolo has been handed a starting place as Zimbabwe seeks to bolster their strikeforce when they face Malawi in their second game at the COSAFA Cup in South Africa. Warriors coach Zdravko Logarusic has made four changes ahead of the tricky game against the Flames at Isaacs Wolfson Stadium in Ports Elizabeth this afternoon. Kickoff is 12 noon. Zimbabwe are looking to turn things around following their lifeless performances in the opening match against Mozambique. Nadolo, defender MacClive Phiri and midfielders Ben Musaka and Richard Hachiro have been given starting places. The quartet featured as second half substitutes in the disappointing goalless draw against Mozambique in the opening match. Loga has decided to bench Tatenda Tavengwa, Brian Banda, Shadreck Nyahwa and Bulawayo Chiefs marksman, Farau Matare. Nyahwa was unavailable for this match because of injury. Zimbabwe will once again be led by Ovidy Karuru, with veteran goalkeeper Washington Arubi also keeping his place after impressing in the first match. After Malawi, Zimbabwe will play 2015 champions Namibia on Sunday before concluding their group campaign with a clash against guest nation Senegal on Tuesday. Malawi coach Meke Mwase has also announced a fairly competitive squad as they look to open their campaign on a positive note. The Flames were placed in Group B on the eve of the tournament following last minute withdraws by Madagascar and Comoros. The Flames have three foreign-based players in their starting XI – Dennis Chembezi, Khuda Muyaba (both Polokwane City, RSA) and Schumacher Kuwali, who plies his trade with former Mozambique champions, UD Songo. They will be led by defender, Stanley Sandi, of Mighty Wanderers.
Teams:
Zimbabwe:
W. Arubi, L. Mucheto, Q. Amini, J. Dzingai, C. Mavhurume, M. Phiri, B. Sarupinda, R. Hachiro, B. Musaka, O. Karuru ©, K. Nadolo
* Substitutes Mapisa, Nyahwa, Murimba, Banda, Dube, Nkolo, Mbeba, Matare
Malawi: Ernest Kakhobwe, Stanley Sanudi ©, Dennis Chembezi, Chikoti Chirwa, Chimwemwe Idana, Khuda Muyaba, Muhammad Sulumba, Mark Fodya, Nickson Nyasulu, Schumacher Kuwali, Vitumbiko Kumwenda