The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter TIMYCEN Maruma scored a half century yesterday in the practice game to set the stage for the lone Test cricket match between Zimbabwe and touring Bangladesh. The top order batsman scored 58 runs for the Zimbabwe Select XI in a two-day warm-up game played at Takashinga Sports Club in Highfield at the weekend. Maruma, who has two centuries to his name this year, is pushing for a place in the Test team. He scored 174 runs in a practice game between Northerns and Southerns in February and then 143 in a first class match between Mountaineers and Rhinos a month later. Zimbabwe and Bangladesh are expected to engage in a Test match at Harare Sports Club starting this Wednesday. The tourists had good practice with Shakib Al Hasan retiring following a brisk 74 from 56 deliveries. Saif Hassan (65*), Najmul Hossain Shanto (52) and Litan Das (37) also got the feel of the game before retiring. Mahmudullah Riyad also played and scored 40 runs before the tourists declared. Bangladesh won the toss and elected to bat first. The visitors declared on 313/2 after facing 90 overs on the first day. Luke Jongwe (1/23) and Brighton Chipungu (1/34) took the only two wickets for Zimbabwe. The hosts were bowled out for 202. The Zimbabwe Select XI featured Roy Kaia, Dion Myers, Charlton Tshuma, Tanaka Chivanga, Luke Jongwe, Joylord Gumbie (wk), Tapiwa Mufudza, Wesley Madhevere, Brighton Chipungu and Milton Shumba. Maruma was tasked with the captain’s role and led the hosts with his half ton which could help him rise his hand in the final Test selection. The 33-year old, however has struggled to impress in the red ball game. Maruma has only played three Tests for Zimbabwe, two of them against Bangladesh. His highest score is 41 runs which he scored last year when Zimbabwe engaged the Tigers in a sole Test in Dhaka. He made his Test debut, against Bangladesh in 2013 and had to wait seven years to play his second Test match after he featured as a replacement for injured Kevin Kasuza in the second innings of the drawn match against Sri Lanka at Harare Sports Club last year. He has batting average of 13.60 in Tests and 31.56 in First Class cricket where he has scored 4 892 runs, encompassing eight centuries and 27 half tons in 169 innings.