The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter
MIGHTY Warriors skipper Emma Msipa is back in Spain after a vacation period at home. The CF Joventut Almasorra midfielder is preparing for the new season in the Segunda Division Pro which begins next month. Msipa, who has a one year-contract, is looking forward to a contract extension. A number of her team-mates last week got two years contract extension which were published on the club’s platforms. Msipa arrived in Spain over the weekend after spending a month in Harare. “My vacation was good though it was very short,” said Msipa. Msipa had hoped to participate in the Africa Women Cup of Nations qualifiers during her short break. However, the national team matches, which were scheduled for June, were postponed due to Covid-19. Msipa says she ended up training alone to regain fitness which is mandatory in tougher leagues. “I only managed to rest for one week and the following week I was already training. In European football you need to be physically fit, so I would train twice a day,” she said. Almasorra managed to survive relegation last season to finish fifth in the nine-team league. Msipa, who has become a regular in the team, featured more often in the starting line-up. The former Mufakose midfielder joined the Spanish side early this year after impressing in the previous COSAFA Championship tournaments in South Africa. Currently she is the only national team player plying her trade in Europe. Another Mighty Warriors player, Danai Bhobho, recently joined Tanzanian club Simba Queens. Bhobho signed a two-year-contract with the club which is the current champions of the Tanzania women’s league. Bhobho was linked up with an agent who has connections with the club which is the women’s team for men’s popular club Simba Sports club. The local women’s football is in active due to Covid-19 regulations. The clubs were back in training two months ago in preparation for a new season. But football was slapped with a fresh suspension by the Government last month. The women’s league was last played in 2019 when former Black Rhinos Queens skipper Msipa lifted another league title with her club.