The Herald Arts Correspondent Affable writer, painter and academic Tafadzwa Gora says it’s hard for him to ignore his other calling as a musician and multi-instrumentalist. The 40-year-old said while he is versatile, it is music he believes sums up his creative edge as a multi-tasking artist. Better known by his moniker, Gora Zowa Machoronga, which is derived from his clan names, the Zowa AfroAcoustics leader is riding high with his 15-track debut album titled “Bambiro”, which has accompanying visuals. Buoyed by the success of his first cut, the Chihota-bred singer said recording his music is the best thing he did in his career. “I am one person who is multi-tasking from being a painter, writer, photographer to being a musician now. I’m also an academic having attained a Master of Science in Human Rights, Peace and Development with Africa University; Bsc Hon Sociology (University of Zimbabwe); diploma in  research-based project design and management (Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine) and BSc Special Honours Monitoring & Evaluation (Lupane State University). But this did not stop my love for music. “I am happy with the response of my latest album and I am busy putting together a second one.” Inspired by his rural background, Gora said his passion started long back while he was still in the rural areas. “As a young boy growing in my rural home of Chihota, we used to sing at home with my uncles Alexandar, Shame, Washington and Wellington. Then there were pfonda/jit gatherings where we used to sing and dance, which marked my interest in music.” Gora, who mastered playing mbira and marimba instruments in high school, said he never quit his love for music when he enrolled at the University of Zimbabwe for his first degree. “Around 2002, I developed an interest in playing the keyboard for our crusade team and I was taught by Arthur Matengo and my passion developed. During the same period, I was taught rhythm guitar by Sipeyiye and Danai of Vembela Band who were based at Birchenough Bridge, where I once worked. “I then developed my interest in music after meeting my first producer, Blessing Usanga, and later Ollin Anderson of Kunashe Records Mutare and Charles Ayibek of Big Sound Studio.” Gora said Mutare-based gospel artiste Blessing Shumba also blessed his musical journey. “I can safely say that Blessing Shumba (The Psalmist), was one of the first people to review my first experimental project and also linking me up with established recording stables. He did it out of love and I am grateful for all the good work he did for me as a musician.” Despite all the fame he has garnered, Gora said he also respect veterans who started off before him. “I have a lot of respect for Alick Macheso, Thomas Mapfumo and the late Simon Chimbetu who paved the way for us,. “I always wanted to learn from legends and I will always be grateful having been exposed to their music which continue to inspire young generations.” Gora bemoaned the Covid-19 pandemic for derailing his plans to hold live shows. “I have always wanted to hold shows, but there is nothing we can do due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “On a positive note, Covid-19 has taught us to be innovative since we can now hold virtual performances on social media platforms such as Facebook live; Twitter live; Instagram live and YouTube live. “In my case, I am now utilising such platforms as iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, Apple Music, Amazon Music, Tidal, Deezer, Band Camp and Sound Cloud to engage fans and sell my music. I urge fellow artiste to follow suit and also do as wise to survive.”