The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter BARELY a month after remembering nine of the fans, who perished in a road accident, Dynamos yesterday were plunged into mourning, following the death of one of the accident’s survivors, Mollen Macheme. Macheme (51) never fully recovered from the injuries she suffered in 2016, when a kombi carrying DeMbare fans to Gweru, ahead of a league match against Chapungu, burst a rear tyre, and rolled several times, at the 173-kilometre peg, near Battlefields. Her only daughter Tafadzwa, yesterday said the late Super Fan complained of chest pains, and severe headache, before she was rushed to Chitungwiza Hospital, on Tuesday night. She was pronounced dead on arrival. Macheme is expected to be buried at her rural home in Zhombe. “We are very distressed as a family, I was her only child and her departure is a big blow, she complained of a severe headache,’’ said Tafadzwa (29). “Remember, she sustained hand and head injuries, during that accident, and we suspect that’s where the problem could have emanated from. “She has been complaining more about the pain, in her arms, and she couldn’t use her hands to do simple household chores, like cooking. “This time, it was the headache. “Mourners are gathered in Manyape Park and the body will be taken to Zhombe tomorrow (today) for burial. “Right now we are waiting for Covid-19 test results and afterwards we will process the burial papers.’’ A jovial character by nature, Macheme rarely missed Dynamos’ games, whether the Glamour Boys were playing at home or away. Macheme was one of the longest serving members of the Dynamos Supporters Association.  She was also vice-chairperson of the Zimbabwe National Soccer Supporters Association and was part of the entourage, at the 2019 AFCON finals, in Egypt. Last month she chronicled to The Herald how she was being haunted by headaches, and pain in her arms, especially during the winter period. Dynamos and Warriors cheerleader, Chris “Romario” Musekiwa, said they have lost a committed member. ‘’She was a jovial character, kind-hearted and a motherly figure whom we looked up to for advice. “She would counsel us, to always stay focused, and to pursue our goals in life to ensure we provide for our families, because she believed football was pleasure. “During the Battle of Zimbabwe clashes at Rufaro, she would volunteer to host Bulawayo-based Dynamos fans, who would have come for the big match, at her home. “We have lost a pillar of strength, a true fan who was ever-present at Dynamos and Warriors matches. “May the good Lord grant us, as a football family, strength and comfort, during this difficult period in which we have also lost three Dynamos legends,” said Musekiwa. The Harare Dynamos Supporters Association described her as a passionate football fan. “It is with a heavy heart that we announce the passing on of ‘Bla Mo’ Mollen Macheme, one of the longest-serving members of the association,’’ they said,in a statement. “A very passionate and determined fan, Bla Mo stood up to be counted, when anything DeMbare, was involved. ‘’No words can atone for the departure of this brave stalwart but we look to the heavens for comfort, acknowledging that it is a journey one has to take, some day. “May Her Soul Rest in Eternal Peace.’’