The Herald Nyasha Chitavati Applied Bio-Sciences and Biotechnology at Midlands States University As youth they are many situations in life where it is of importance to check and re-examine people and things around us that may not be the most positive for us. This decision somehow may be very emotional, painful and stressful but it is the only solution to being the best you can. Being unable to leave certain activities and people in our lives may keep us at the same level. As youth it is so natural for us to be attached and feel comfortable in dwelling in some environments and hanging around certain people. Living a life chiefly, directed towards our goals comes with a lot of responsibilities. Before you execute whatever plan you have in mind, there is a need for you to move from a place you are, into an environment that allows you to grow and become the person you have always wanted to be. As youth we have incredible ideas and plans that can transform our lives in a way that we won’t even imagine. But these ideas might not be fulfilled if we remain attached to the old habits and environments that drain our power and energy. Move away from such people and environment. I believe, it is no longer a time for us to wait for things to inherently come to us while we fold our hands and leaving everything to luck no. It is no longer a time for us to do things just because we want to prove a point to people who don’t even care or bother to look at us. Don’t get yourself into permanent trouble for the sake of gaining praises or temporary admiration from people. Learn to run after what is important. In order for us to be better in life, there is a need for a separation from our old lives, habits, people, places, and even friends. We need to intentionally separate ourselves from the things that hold us back the moment we try to go forward. The truth of the matter is everyone is not willing to grow with you or can’t take your growth. It is useless to remain with people who drain your energy just because they’re family or friends. Youth always know that if you surround yourself with individuals who can’t inspire you. Who don’t even add any value to you? Then chances of being successful are limited.People in your circle have a huge impact on your way towards success. If you don’t check well the people you associate with, you will end up putting yourself in a rabbit trail that you can never get out of. Your connection will always determine your collection. During this stage of youthness, a lot of things might get in our ways that we forget to remember about who we are and who want to be life. Certain habits like finding top gossips on social media, trotting from pub to pub, waste so much of our energy and the moment we will realize it, it will be too late. We need to let go of some habits and activities that separate us from our goals. We need to stop concentrating on things that have no value. We need to release ourselves from carrying unnecessary baggage. It’s not a bad things to enjoy your youth but remember to always put priorities first. Your goals and who you will become in the future matters. All those things that appear attractive to us , will always be there but remember to be always alert.If you have something you’re passionate about then go for it. Improve yourself for the better. Always be determined. Be a person of value and you will always attract things of value too in your life. Be determined. Be bold. Be ambitious.