The Herald Herald Correspondent ZANU PF has set up a committee to deal with all unplanned settlements across the country and more critically to prevent any further illegal development. This follows the recent demolitions that took place in Melfort, three years after building started. Speaking after a multi-stakeholder meeting held at Zanu PF headquarters in Harare yesterday, the party’s secretary for finance and acting national political commissar Cde Patrick Chinamasa said the committee would deal with the developmental issues taking place in the country. The committee comprises of Zanu PF Secretary for Administration Dr Obert Mpofu, Minister of Local Government and Public Works Cde July Moyo, Minister of National Housing and Social Amenities Cde Daniel Garwe, Minister of Small to Medium enterprises and Cooperatives Development Dr Sithembiso Nyoni, Minister of Justice, Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Ziyambi Ziyambi and all ministers of                                     State. “We have created a committee which will be chaired by the Secretary for Administration Dr Obert Mpofu, and it comprises of relevant ministers who have something to do with unplanned settlements and regularisation of unplanned settlements and these ministers will include the minister of Local Government and Public Works because it is the ministry of the State land,” Cde Chinamasa said. “It also includes the Minister of National Housing and Social Amenities. He cannot regularise unless he works hand-in-hand with the Ministry of Local Government and Public Works who are the owners of the land. “The committee also include the Minister of Small to Medium enterprises and Cooperatives Development Dr Sithembiso Nyoni. It also includes the Minister of Justice because legal issues will arise in terms of the process of regularisation. It must include all relevant resident ministers.” Cde Chinamasa said all councils and housing departments at all levels must respect wetlands and housing provision must be done procedurally and properly. He said land barons must be brought to book swiftly to face the wrath of the law. “The Ministry of Local Government and Public Works, the Ministry of Housing and Social Amenities, the Ministry of Small and Medium Enterprises and Cooperative Development, Ministry of Justice, Provincial Affairs ministers and the party must work together to deal with land barons and illegal occupations timeously and not to wait for three years only to destroy people’s homes. The intervention must be to stop any illegal development taking place under their watch. That is basically what should happen and for that reason we also communicated that I think a special enforcement unit should be set up to ensure that no illegal settlement or development takes place by persons who do not own the land and by person who do not have a development permit,” Cde Chinamasa said. He said in the case of demolitions in Melfort, orders were given by Cde Moyo to halt the demolitions, but unfortunately the council seems to have defied the directive. “We need to remind all authorities that in future we expect strict obligation by councils especially if they are Zanu PF led councils to tow the party line, to tow the Government line that party members that see party leaders in councils must work to see the party and President’s pledge of 2018 to accelerate the housing provision for our people,” Cde Chinamasa said.