The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter SOME members of the senior national netball team say they are concerned about the situation they find themselves in as they continue to wait for a return to competition. The Gems were last active towards the end of 2019. Netball South Africa had resumed their activities, for a while, prior to the recent suspension. However, locally games were called off, in March last year, and since then, there hasn’t been much activity. For the Gems, the Pent Series in Namibia, which had been scheduled for June, appeared to have presented a window of hope. They were one of the invited teams. However, the tournament has also been put on hold. Gems and Platinum Queens goalkeeper, Sharleen Makusha, says they now face a difficult time, ahead of the World Cup qualifiers. “For us to compete, we need to train, because even when we met, as things were getting better, you could see there is a lot of work that needs to be done,’’ she said. “It’s like we are starting from scratch. “Of course, we have the basics but we will be re-starting again when we are finally allowed to train. “It’s like, for the qualifiers next year, if we don’t start to train now, there is no way we will win. “But, if they (the national association) could get clearance, get us in one place, we follow the Covid-19 protocols, even if it means being tested regularly, that way we can have somewhere to start.’’ She said although they have had individual training programmes, the best way was to bring the team together, regularly. Ursula Ndlovu, who had some outstanding moments at the previous World Cup in Liverpool, said the fact that their last competition, as a national team was in 2019, leaves them with a lot of work to do. “Considering it’s been long, since the Gems’ last game, it is definitely going to take a lot to get back into the shape that we were in back then. “It’s even harder to regain the momentum, as a team because, obviously, there are going to be many changes. “For the World Cup qualifiers, next year, it is definitely going to be an uphill task and will need absolute commitment, from the netball family, and other stakeholders. “The cancelled Pent Series was going to be a good opportunity to measure where we are and how much work needs to be done,” Ndlovu said. The Gems goal attacker, however, said she has had to find a way to work on her individual skills. “As a player, with passion for netball, I find time to work on individual improvement of my game. “I have engaged a development coach that I actually pay to help me work on my individual skills. “This break has given me time to reflect on how far I am willing to go, as a player, and how much I am willing to sacrifice, to improve my game, rather than sit back and relax,” said Ndlovu.