The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S Warriors begins their hunt for the record seventh COSAFA Cup title this afternoon when they take on Mozambique in Port Elizabeth. The match gets underway at midday at the Wolfson Stadium. Following a late change to the COSAFA Cup fixtures, the Warriors’ battle against the Mambas has been brought forward to today. The match had originally been scheduled for tomorrow. The Group C matches had to be moved to today after the organisers were forced to dissolve Group B, which was left with two countries — Zambia and Mozambique. This followed the withdrawal of Indian Ocean islanders, Comoros and Madagascar. COSAFA conducted a fresh draw, placing Zambia in Group A, while Mozambique were put in Group C, which also have Senegal and Namibia. Senegal and Namibia meet at 3pm. Warriors coach, Zdravko Logarusic, is expected to join the team this morning. He left Zimbabwe yesterday, at 6 pm, after he was finally granted a visa, to enter South Africa. Loga was detained at OR Tambo International Airport, in Johannesburg, on Monday morning, due to visa issues. Assistant coach, Tonderai Ndiraya, conducted the team’s training session yesterday afternoon. Since the tournament’s inception in 1997, Zimbabwe have met against Mozambique four times. The Warriors have never lost a match to their eastern neighbours. Zimbabwe have managed three victories, and drawn once, in matches against the Mambas. In these encounters, the Warriors have scored nine goals and conceded none. But, with a number of players set for their debut appearances, after Loga chose to overlook many of the regular players, the team’s technical department have not been talking about chasing for another regional title. The Warriors squad has also been hit by a number of withdrawals. Evans Rusike, Kelvin Moyo, Godknows Murwira, Perfect Chikwende, Knox Mutizwa and Germany-based Jonah Fabisch, were all part of the initial training squad, but will not feature in the tournament. Last night, Ndiraya said there was excitement, among the players who will be making their debut appearance, at the regional tournament. Blessing Sarupinda, Brian Banda, Lenox Mucheto, Nyasha Dube, Marlvin Nkolo and Delic Murimba will be playing in the COSAFA Cup for the first time. “The training went on well and the players looked sharp. They rested well and are ready to represent their country. “There is excitement, from those who will be playing their debut matches for the country, at this level,” said Ndiraya. Another change that was announced by the organising committee earlier in the day is that teams may use five substitutes. They have to be brought on, at only three separate points, during the game. This is in line with FIFA and CAF statutes that have been extended for use up until the end of 2022.  Warriors COSAFA Cup Record At A Glance 1997 – First Round 1998 – Runners Up 1999 – Quarter finals 2000 – Winners 2001 – Runners Up 2002 – Quarter-finals 2003 – Winners 2004 – Semi-finals 2005 – Winners 2006 – Semi-finals 2007 – First Round 2008- Quarter-finals 2009 – Winners 2013 – Runners Up 2015 – First Round 2016 – First Round 2017 – Winners 2018 – Winners 2019 – Semi-finals.