The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter HAVING each other’s back when they train and compete always gives the Mawere siblings — Makanaka and Matipa — positive energy and helps them push each other. They share the same passion for triathlon. They made a huge impression at the 2021 Africa Championships in Egypt, with 17-year-old Makanaka, winning bronze in the Junior Women Under-19. Her brother Matipa won gold in the Youth Boys Under-15. They both started off with aquathlon, which consists of swimming and running. They then moved to triathlon, as they worked on their cycling. Makanaka’s first international competition was the South Africa Championships, and she came fourth, competing in the Under-15s, in 2019. In 2020, she was seventh at the Troutbeck ATU Junior Africa Cup, in the Junior Under-19 category. “I think just gaining more experience, and knowing more about the sport, it’s been a good journey and a good learning curve. “I will always keep the lessons I have learnt from the sport for the rest of my life. “When I came third, it was a really huge surprise and I felt really proud of myself and it gave me a new boost of motivation, to train even harder, for me to do better,” said Makanaka. What makes it more interesting is competing alongside her 15-year-old brother Matipa. “I actually enjoy it a lot because you know that you have that one supporter, who has got your back the whole time. “It’s really enjoyable watching your sibling compete in the same place as you. “It’s just good to see that you have someone in your family who is achieving great things and doing great things.” Makanaka represented the country in the ATU Junior Development Camp, where she interacted with professional triathletes, sharing their experiences. Her brother Matipa, who joined the sport in 2019, has also done well for himself. “It’s been tough, lots of training, going on rides with people who are better than you, it improves you, especially your bike skills,” said Matipa. He is also involved in swimming, hockey and cricket, which he says helps him stay fit. Their mother Angela is a proud of how things have turned out for her kids. “I owe the kids’ success to God, first and foremost, and also to swimming coach Mike Ranken, who three years ago, asked Pamela Fulton (triathlon coach) to get hold of me to try out Makanaka for triathlon, because she is a good runner and swimmer. “After Pam got hold of me, the rest is history, as they say,” said Angela.