The Herald ZIMBABWE are yet to win a match on the tour at home and will be hoping to turn things around in the T20I cricket series against Bangladesh which gets underway today at Harare Sports Club. Bangladesh have been absolutely dominant so far on tour, first winning the one-off Test by a massive margin of 220 runs and then whitewashing Zimbabwe 3-0 in the ODI series. The T20I leg of the tour will provide the visitors with an opportunity to get in the groove for Round 1 of the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup, where they have been pitted in Group B with Oman, Papua New Guinea and Scotland. Bangladesh were dealt a massive injury blow with Tamim Iqbal ruled out for the rest of the tour. In his absence, Mohammad Naim is expected to slot in at the top with Liton Das. Zimbabwe meanwhile would be ruing the missed chances so far on tour. Though they were convincingly defeated in the one-off Test and first ODI, they were in with a chance to win both the second and third ODI. Taking positives from the last two games, the hosts will be looking to put up a better fight when they face Bangladesh in the T20I series. The last time the two teams met in T20Is was during Zimbabwe’s tour of Bangladesh in March 2020 where the hosts came away with a 2-0 series win. In the first T20I, Bangladesh restricted Zimbabwe to a paltry score of 119, mostly thanks to Brendan Taylor’s knock of 59. On the back of Liton Das’s 45-ball 60, the home side chased the total down with more than four overs to spare and nine wickets in hand. In the second T20I, the Bangladesh batter dominated Zimbabwe’s bowling and posted 200 runs in the first innings. Liton Das got his second half-century of the series while Soumya Sarkar took the bowlers to the cleaners with an unbeaten 32-ball 62. The visitors fell 48 runs short in their chase with Mustafizur Rahman and Aminul Islam bagging a three-for each. The opening T20I against Zimbabwe will be Bangladesh’s first of potentially 16 matches in their lead-up to the T20 World Cup in October-November, including matches against Australia, New Zealand and England. In the injury-enforced absence of Tamim Iqbal, Bangladesh’s batting line-up will bank on Mohammad Naim and Liton Das for fast starts. Shakib Al Hasan and Mahmudullah will be in charge of the middle order and the team management will hope that at least one of them can bat deep to guide Afif Hossain, Nurul Hasan and Mahedi Hasan in the slog overs. Bangladesh have the option of picking a four-member pace attack, with the two left-armers Shoriful Islam and Mustafizur Rahman bowling at specific phases. They also have Soumya Sarkar and Shamim Hossain among the back-up batters while left-arm spinner Nasum Ahmed and legspinner Aminul Islam add to the bowling options. Zimbabwe were blanked 3-0 in the preceding ODI series, but they can take heart from their batting performance in the final ODI where the posted 298. Regis Chakabva has been in top form, having made a career-best 84 in the final ODI to back up his 54 in the first match. Wessley Madhevere and Brendan Taylor have threatened big scores, while Ryan Burl and Sikandar Raza also made fifties in the third game. Zimbabwe’s bowling looked a bit of shape in the second and third ODIs, but they are capable of making an impact with the new ball. Blessing Muzarabani offers sharp pace and bounce, while Richard Ngarava, Donald Tiripano and Luke Jongwe have been among the wickets. Tendai Chatara, however, hasn’t been as effective. Bangladesh will look to attack the twin offspinners Madhevere and Raza, but that could potentially give the hosts an opportunity to strike. Form guide (last five completed matches) Zimbabwe LWLLL Bangladesh LLLWW In the spotlight Ryan Burl tuned up for the T20I series with a 43-ball 59 on Tuesday and will continue to be a threat for Bangladesh. Burl had latched onto anything sliding into middle stump, going on a boundary-hitting spree against Mohammad Saifuddin. With two quickfire knocks in the ODI series, Afif Hossain is close to being considered as one of Bangladesh’s big-hitting options in the middle order. His offspin is still a work in progress although he has slowly become a dependable fielder. Zimbabwe might retain XI that played the third ODI, but the batting order may change with Wessley Madhevere possibly better placed at No 3. Shakib and Mahmudullah will beef up the middle order while Nurul Hasan has probably done enough to keep his No.6 spot in the T20Is too. Bangladesh could go with four pace bowlers if they pick Mahedi Hasan at No 7. Zimbabwe (probable): 1 Regis Chakabva (wk), 2 Tadiwanashe Marumani, 3 Wessley Madhevere, 4 Brendan Taylor (capt), 5 Dion Myers, 6 Sikandar Raza, 7 Ryan Burl, 8 Donald Tiripano, 9 Luke Jongwe, 10 Blessing Muzarabani, 11 Richard Ngarava Bangladesh (probable): 1 Mohammad Naim, 2 Liton Das (wk), 3 Shakib Al Hasan, 4 Mahmudullah (capt), 5 Afif Hossain, 6 Nurul Hasan, 7 Mahedi Hasan, 8 Mohammad Saifuddin, 9 Taskin Ahmed, 10 Shoriful Islam, 11 Mustafizur Rahman — ICC/ESPNCricinfo