The Herald Grace Chingoma
Senior Sports Reporter
BLACK Rhinos Queens have beefed-up their squad by acquiring the services of veteran midfielder Marjory Nyaumwe ahead of the CAF Women’s Champions League zonal football qualifiers next month. The army side, who are set to make history by becoming the first Zimbabwean women’s side to play in the continent’s inter-club competition, have roped in experienced Mighty Warriors star midfielder on a loan deal from Correctional Queens. However, the army side are yet to secure Government clearance to participate in the tournament. Black Rhinos Queens were selected to represent Zimbabwe in the inaugural Women’s Champions League, on account of them having won the 2019 Super League. No competitive football was played last year. Last week, the Sports Commission turned down requests from ZIFA for the women’s team and FC Platinum to resume training. However, as they wait for approval, Black Rhinos Queens are going on with assembling a formidable squad. This week they completed a six-month loan deal for Nyaumwe. The move is expected to boost the Zimbabwean representatives’ fortunes in the competition which has been scheduled to run from August 12. COSAFA are expected to announce the venue and fixtures this week. The winner from the regional tournament will go on to represent the region, at the CAF Women’s Champions League finals, in Egypt. The North African country finally won the bid which initially was claimed by Morocco. However, CAF have since set the record straight and said Egypt are the host of the inaugural Women’s Champions League. Yesterday, Black Rhinos Queens coach, Kuda Matuwi, said they have confidence in the capabilities of Nyaumwe. “We are boosting our squad by adding experienced players and strengthening the squad. “Our biggest challenge is Covid-19. There is no competitive football in Zimbabwe at the moment and we cannot assess some of the players we are interested in. But we have to work with what we have. “Currently we are not training and have given our players some individual programmes. This has really affected our preparations,” said Matuwi. Correctional Queens secretary-general, Arthur Gorejena, said the loan deal will benefit both clubs. “We loaned her (Nyaumwe) for a short period, after six months she will be back. “We are supporting our sister club, considering that they will be playing in the Champions League and representing the nation. The participating teams in the COSAFA region are Prisons XI (Botswana), Manzini Wanderers (Swaziland), Lesotho Defence Force (Lesotho), Costa Do Sol(Mozambique), Tyra Magic (Namibia), Mamelodi Sundowns (South Africa), Green Buffaloes (Zambia) and Black Rhinos Queens (Zimbabwe).