The Herald JOHANNESBURG. – Sixteen-year-old R&B singer Sindiswa Tembe uses her music to encourage other girls to believe in themselves and stand up against bullying. Sindiswa, who is in grade 10 at Margot Fonteyn Secondary School near Chartsworth in Durban, has been watching many stories of girls being bullied at schools and wants to use her music to discourage it. Through her music, Sindiswa wants girls to know their personal worth and value. Blessed with a voice that is considered to be matured beyond her age, Sindiswa, who is also a dancer, has been writing songs since she was 13. Speaking to Sowetan, Sindiswa said she cannot wait to start her career officially, next month, when she records all the music she has been writing since she was in primary school. “My music speaks about love and life in general. “When it comes to life issues, I look at how girls do not believe that they have what it takes to achieve anything,” she said. Sindiswa said her music also aims to push girls to “stand up and continue to shine”. “I also highlight the issues of bullying at school that seem to have gone worse in the past two years. I want them to speak out about it and fight together,” she said. According to the singer’s mother, Phumzile Tembe, the teenager started showing signs of stardom at the age of 7. She said she was convinced that her daughter was a natural-born star when she wrote a song titled I was Born to Shine at the age of 14. “We noticed that she has talent at a young age. Whenever a song is played on radio she will be excited and when it ends she will cry,” Tembe said She said her daughter began singing at home and in Sunday school. “We have realised that she is talented and I become emotional when I see her performing. I wish I could do more to support her talent as a parent.” After the young singer recorded a video performing one of her composition, You Got Me Spinning Around, talent scouts like Vusumuzi Cele were interested to work with her. Cele has offered to take the young singer to the studio and record her music officially. “When I saw her performing I realised that this is pure talent and she needs to record her music.” – sowetan