The Herald Political Editor
PROXIMITY to power should never be a privilege or passage to accessing favours under the Second Republic which values hard work, honesty, and dedication to duty, President Mnangagwa said. This comes as President Mnangagwa has also declared zero tolerance to corruption, saying any corrupt person, regardless of political status or connections, will be arrested and prosecuted per the laws of the country. In his speech during the burial of the late Major-General Shadreck  Chiramba at the National Heroes Acre on Sunday, the President said although the late national hero rubbed shoulders with some prominent persons during and after the liberation struggle, he never abused those connections. “Although the late hero trained with and deputised commanders who went on to occupy national strategic positions; he never claimed or demanded such association to be a right to access privileges or benefits. “Under the Second Republic, proximity or relations with those holding public positions of influence should never be a basis whatsoever to accessing favours or benefits,” the President said. In his speech, the President described how the national hero received early military training at Morogoro Training Camp in Tanzania where he met the current Commander Defence Forces, General Philip Valerio Sibanda, with whom he trained from June to November 1974. ability during the initial training, he was among the few cadres selected to undergo the Cadet Light Artillery Weapons Training between November 1974 and October 1975 in Ukraine, in the then Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.” The President narrated how the late Major-General was instrumental in the integration of ex-combatants into the Zimbabwe National Army. “He was attested into the Zimbabwe National Army in 1980 and promoted to the rank of Colonel in April 1981. Thereafter, he was appointed to several command positions which included, commanding officer Mashonaland Services Corps; Commander Bulawayo District; Commander 3 Infantry Brigade, Commander Engineers Corps, and Commander 5 Infantry Brigade from 1993 to 1996 during which, he was promoted to the rank of Brigadier General in 1994. Even after he retired from the military in 2004 his impeccable track record of honesty, integrity, and dedication to duty saw him being seconded to the Democratic Republic of Congo in 2007. When he returned from his tour of duty, the late Major-General, whose nom-de-guerre was Simangaliso Gumede, went into farming contributing to the country’s agriculture transformation from the district of Karoi. President Mnangagwa urged Zimbabweans to emulate the late national hero in promoting and defending the country’s interests. “The life of the late national hero Maj-Gen (Rtd) Chiramba is a testimony that he was a true revolutionary, a patriot and comrade par excellence. Our citizenry must emulate the sacrifices made by such heroes and heroines. “In the face of various forms of neo-imperialism let us all remain united and alive to the clandestine machinations by detractors calculated to reverse the gains of our independence. “We should never grow tired of defending, protecting, and safeguarding our country’s sovereignty.” The President said it was every Zimbabwean’s duty to promote the country’s history, identity, and vision and the experiences of natural disasters and illegal sanctions should spur the nation to modernise, industrialise and develop. The true meaning of self-determination which many heroes had sacrificed their lives for should be seen in the improved quality of life for the country’s citizens. The President said the late Maj-Gen Chiramba was a devout Christian and humble man who never abused his position to access privileges and benefits. He was accorded several awards and medals due to his dedication and exemplary service and these include the Liberation, Independence of Zimbabwe, Mozambique as well as the Long and Exemplary Service medals.