The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter
THE ZIFA Constitutional Review process has once again been halted due to Covid-19. The constitution process is going to take a little longer after the committee was forced once again to halt its processes. Last year the exercise was affected by Covid-19 and had resumed three months ago virtually. ZIFA are in the process to amend their 2013 constitution aligning it to CAF and FIFA statutes. The Constitutional Review Committee had already gathered written submissions from key stakeholders after they sent out a questionnaire.
However, the committee was about to enter the stage, which can only be done physically with all the members present. The committee, chaired by lawyer Kelvin Musimwa, was convening physical meetings and studying the submissions, which will help them glean information that will assist in coming up with a draft document to be submitted to the ZIFA Council during the 2021 Annual General Meeting. They can only resume operations once the Covid-19 regulations on physical meetings are relaxed again. Musimwa chairs a nine-member committee, where he is deputised by Thomas Marambanyika while ZIFA Northern Region One Division chairperson Martin Kweza is the secretary. The committee members are Isiah Mupfurutsa, Beaulah Msara, Gilbert Saika, Wisdom Simba, Mehluli Thebe and Simon Simango.
Some of the questions that have been included in the questionnaire are the composition of the ZIFA congress and the gender sensitivity of the current document. “Who are the key stakeholders in the Zimbabwean football fraternity who should form the ZIFA Congress? “In your view does the ZIFA constitution cater for the issues of gender adequately? “Looking at the global trend and development on football, what areas of the ZIFA constitution do you feel are now outdated and need to be reviewed? “Are there any clauses in the ZIFA constitution that are not consistent with the FIFA constitution you think need to be aligned? These are some of the questions asked in the 13-question questionnaire.