The Herald Sports Reporter THE local basketball fraternity was thrown into mourning yesterday following the tragedy in which former referee, Terry Kagande, and his family, perished, in South Africa. Kagande (49), his wife and two children died in a suspected gas explosion. He was involved in basketball administration at different levels before relocating to South Africa. His uncle, Forward Kagande, confirmed the tragedy. Basketball Union Zimbabwe president, Joe Mujuru, said Kagande was instrumental in the development of the sport, particularly in Harare. “Terry was really known for being a referee and an administrator. “He did a lot of work, during his time, and worked with Arcadia Bucs, and Varsity Leopards, in administration. “He was also involved with development of referees, around the 1990s, and early 2000s. “In terms of basketball, he leaves a legacy of commitment, a legacy of the love of the game. “It’s unfortunate we had to lose him, in such tragic circumstances, we are quite saddened by that loss, especially losing him, this way,” said Mujuru. Harare City Hornets chairman, Sunny Mbofana, said they had been plunged into mourning. “The basketball family will never be the same again, after the demise of this great guy, and his family. “Terry was a people’s person, and known by his permanent smile, and his bullish approach, both as player at Arcadia Bucs, and administrator /referee. “He would keep in touch, and ask about the game, even if he was miles away from home. “And, having chatted with him around May, this year, it saddens me so much, to hear about his tragic death,” said Mbofana. Spencer Nyamadzawo, who had the opportunity to work with Kagande at Arcadia Bucs, said the game had lost its gentlesman. “Terry started playing basketball with Arcadia Bucs in the 1990s, I think from 1994 to 1997. “He was also a referee in basketball circles, I know him more as a referee. “He was the first local referee to be accredited with FIBA. As a player, he used to play for Cubs, which was the reserve team for Arcadia Bucs.  “He also played rugby. “He was a social person, easy going and used to joke around and got along with almost everyone. “He was passionate about sport, very passionate about basketball,” said Nyamadzawo.