The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE international, Willard Katsande, says they are not only representing Kaizer Chiefs, when they go into battle, in tonight’s CAF Champions League final. The midfield enforcer feels he is representing millions of young men, across the country, who want to chase dreams of becoming successful professional footballers. Katsande is expected to start again, when the Amakhosi take on Egyptian giants Al Ahly, in Casablanca, Morocco, tonight. However, it’s not yet clear whether Khama Billiat, who iss coming from injury, will be thrust into action. Billiat has already won the big trophy, with Mamelodi Sundowns, in the past. “We are two Zimbabweans here, the most important thing is to represent our country with pride,’’ said Katsande. “We know that the whole country will be watching us and supporting us. “We are also representing Zimbabwe.” Katsande says their success will inspire a young Warrior to dare to dream of one day reaching this stage. “It gives hope to the young players back home that if you work hard and stay humble, and believe in yourself, anything is possible,’’ he said. “We are references to the upcoming footballers, in Zimbabwe, showing that playing in CAF Champions League final, is possible, if you believe in yourself, and believe in your hard work, and know what you want. “We are not only doing it for Kaizer Chiefs, not only are we doing it for ourselves, but we are also doing it for the entire nation. “For the upcoming footballers, so that they can hope to be better than us. “If we get so many youngsters believing in themselves, we are bound to have a stronger national team. “So, we are happy to be here as Zimbabweans, representing our country, and we love our country and want to be the testimony for the upcoming stars.” The former Warriors skipper says the team were in high spirits and believe Casablanca will once again prove to be a successful hunting ground. “We are enjoying, this is the second time coming here in two months, and it’s my third visit to this country. “It has been hectic, camping, traveling and planning and all. I am feeling great, the big day is getting closer. “We can’t wait to showcase our talent on Saturday (today). We know this is the biggest occasion when it comes to African football. “I have good memories here, and good performances here, so we will bank on that and we are still familiar with everything. “The last time we visited, we had a win which gave us the ticket to this occasion.” Katsande, who has reached a milestone of clocking 325 games for Kaizer Chiefs, says everyone is aware of the grand expectations. “Everybody is so calm, and ready to play their role and, it’s a big game and we know what’s expected from us. “We will carry our underdog tag but when it comes to Match Day, it is about who wants it more. “So we are ready, we are hungry to put a star on our badge and we are going for it, and we want to participate in the Club World Cup, by winning this game,” he said. As one of the senior players, he has also been encouraging the young players to stay calm, and give it their best shot. “The message to the young players is for them to just enjoy their game, like any other game, and as senior players, we have been telling them that they need to give the best version of themselves. “It is our duty to calm them and reassure them that the ship is steady,” said Katsande.