The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE international master, Rodwell Makoto, found the going tough, falling at the first hurdle, at the FIDE Chess World Cup. The tournament is being held at the Gazprom Mountain Resort in Sochi, Russia. The Chess World Cup had 92 matches lined up for round one. Makoto, who face Belarussian, Vladislav Kovalev, had no chance, against his highly-ranked opponent. Playing with the black pieces, on the first day of the two legs, Makoto seemed well prepared for Kovalev, on white pieces, which have a considerable advantage of the first move. On move number 12, Makoto sacrificed his pawn, in order to put his opponent under pressure in the centre of the board. And, this is where many believe things started to go wrong. With the extra pawn, the grandmaster started making inroads, finding resourceful ways to press Makoto, in the centre of the board. After 26.e6 by Kovalev, IM Makoto was left without much answers, coupled with the few minutes he now had, remaining on the clock. And, after one move, he decided to call it a game and save his energy for the return leg. On day two, which was a must-win scenario for Makoto, he chose to go for his much-trusted move 1. Nf3. This saw him generate some threats and, when the key moment came, he decided to go all out sacrificing a knight, in order to win, or die trying. The plan seemed to be going well for a moment but his opponent found ways to defend the position and eventually managed to weather the storm, with a proposal to exchange queens, of the board. This meant Makoto was left piece down, without compensation for the deficit, and defeat was certain. Zimbabwe Chess Federation secretary-general, Todd Mapingire, said they were gutted with the loss, and elimination, from World Cup, but they were happy with the fighting spirit, displayed by Makoto. “In both his games, he really fought, but it was not our time. We wish him a safe journey back home and, even in defeat, we stand with him, he represented the country with pride,” said Mapingire. Makoto was expected to take a flight back to South Africa, where he is based, yesterday.