The Herald LONDON. — Arsenal boss Mikel Arteta has revealed he consulted Manchester City legend Vincent Kompany before completing a move for Albert Sambi Lokonga and sanctioned a move for the midfielder after he earned rave reviews from the Anderlecht boss. The Brussels-born star of Congolese descent is now confirmed as a Gunners player after his switch from Belgian side Anderlecht was confirmed on Monday The Gunners announced the capture of Lokonga on Monday, making him the club’s second signing of the summer. The 21-year-old Belgian star arrives at the Emirates in a £17million deal. He has put pen to paper on a long-term contract and becomes the Gunners’ second signing of the summer transfer window following the recent £8m arrival of Benfica left-back Nuno Tavares (21). Sambi Lokonga is regarded as one of the most promising young midfielders in European football and wore the captain’s armband at Anderlecht last season despite his tender age, having risen through the club’s academy. The Belgian underwent a medical with Arsenal last Friday and will wear the No.23 shirt in north London. The Belgium Under-21 international made his first team debut in 2017 and has been a regular ever since, making 78 appearances for the Belgian club. Kompany took charge of Anderlecht in 2020 after hanging up his boots and the former City captain couldn’t stand in Lokonga’s way once Arsenal came in, with Kompany advising Arteta to sign him. “Albert is a very intelligent player who has shown great maturity in his performances during his development,” said Arteta. “He has been coached well by Vincent Kompany and his team at Anderlecht. I know Vincent very well and he talks so highly about Albert and the positive impact he had to Anderlecht in recent seasons. “We’re confident Albert’s ready for the next stage in his development and we’re looking forward to welcoming a new member to our squad with his quality and presence.” Technical Director Edu was similarly delighted that the club were able to pull off a deal for Lokonga. — Metro.