The Herald Blessings Chidakwa Herald Reporter Non-governmental Organisations (NGOs) are now obliged to get clearance from Provincial Development Coordinators (PCCs) and also submit their work plans and information on their planned workshops. This follows a public outcry over the conduct of some NGOs that have been wantonly meddling in local politics to effect regime change as they push the nefarious interests of some nations in the West. It also comes after the ruling party Zanu PF last week raised concern over the conduct of the plus 3 500 registered in the country, the majority of which apparently meddle in politics under the guise of civic education. In order to make the NGOs carry out their anti-Zimbabwe crusade, Western countries are dangling millions of dollars for so-called voter education and constitution awareness programmes with the USAID alone having tabled US$5 million to finance the non-governmental organisations. In a letter to all NGOs, private voluntary organisations (PVOs), faith based organisations and civil society organisations, Harare Metropolitan Province Development Coordinator Mr Tafadzwa Muguti said operations of such organisations must always be within the confines of the law. “It has been noted with a high degree of concern that many organisations operating in Harare Metropolitan Province, in particular NGOs, have been straying from mandates stated in their respective Memorandum of Understanding (MoUs). Suffice to say that such behaviour represents a breach of Memorandum of Agreement and should not be allowed to manifest further. “In view of the foregoing, all non-governmental organisations (NGOs) are hereby directed that operations and clearance of NGOs are now domiciled with the Provincial Development Coordinator. “Further to that, all NGOs are directed to submit work plans for the year 2021 to the office of the Provincial Development Coordinator as well as information relating to workshops, commissioning of projects, works being undertaken in Harare Metropolitan Province, monthly reports, and other pertinent information as regards their operations by July 9, 2021,” reads the letter in part. Government has invited directors of hundreds of NGOs operating in the country for a courtesy call which will be attended by Harare Metropolitan Province Minister of State for Provincial Affairs and Devolution Oliver Chidhau and Mr Muguti. Addressing a press conference at the party headquarters last week, Zanu PF acting commissar Cde Patrick Chinamasa said the ruling party will not hesitate to flush out errant NGOs. “Zimbabwe has a record of something like 3 500 NGOs in this country, none of them, very few of them (are) helping to contribute to the economic development of the country. “Very few of them helping to build schools, clinics, to give livelihoods to our people through irrigation schemes. All of them are employed to achieve regime change in Zimbabwe and we condemn it as they are calculated to undermine the orderly evolution of our political, economic and judicial systems and must be condemned,” he said. Cde Chinamasa said it is the country’s sovereign right to have a peaceful and uninterrupted evolution. “NGOs, we are at the moment just understanding what they are doing and if we see that they are on a regime change agenda ours will be to request their de-registration, clearly that is our responsibility as a country. “We cannot allow, internally, any organisations which we register under our statutes to subvert the sovereignty and integrity of Zimbabwe,” he said.