The Herald Johannesburg. — Babes Wodumo has urged victims of gender-based violence (GBV) to find their voices and break their silence. The singer and dancer, who made headlines a few years ago for being a GBV victim at the hands of the man who is now her husband, has made it clear that she’s very much happy in her marriage to Mampintsha. Babes, born Bongekile Simelane, said yesterday that she has moved on from the domestic abuse case with Mampintsha, real name Mandla Maphumulo, which first surfaced in 2018. The Wololo hitmaker’s focus is now on her career and family with Mampintsha and their newborn son. “Never be quiet about it [GBV], but also don’t be afraid to keep the story clear so we can work on it the correct way. I’m happy in my relationship,” Babes Wodumo said. “Motherhood is new to me but I’ve got friends and family and my husband by my side, so I would manage and I’m very excited about everything. “Our son’s name is not yet revealed, until we find the best brand ambassador for him that would reveal the name to the public in the coolest way.” The couple’s controversial love story is the subject of new Showmax reality show, Uthando Lodumo, which debuted on the streaming service yesterday. Straight off the bet, viewers learn that the couple have been together for nine years and met when Babes Wodumo was “very young” and a video vixen for kwaito group Big Nuz.  Mampitsha was the most recognisable face of the three-man outfit. In 2019, an assault charge opened by Babes Wodumo against Mampintsha was withdrawn after both parties adhered to a Family and Marriage Society of SA mediation process. In episode two Mampintsha comes face-to-face with Babes Wodumo’s parents, Welcome and Thokozile Simelane, to apologise — Babes Wodumo is not present during the meeting. “I wanted to come in person and apologise for the many mistakes and for the big drama that hurt everyone, because I know that’s the root of our misunderstandings,” Mampintsha said in his apology. Welcome responded: “We are not happy Mandla, but you’re here to apologise. We can’t help but remember the issue of gender-based violence. Thank you for being man enough to come and apologise.” Thokozile continued to offer Mampintsha marital advice. “I was really hurt by what happened. I did not like it one bit. I got married very young and from that day until now Baba’s father has never raised his hand to hit me or even raised his voice,” Thokozile said. Then shortly thereafter during Mampintsha’s dairy entry, he said: “I’d advise others to never do what I did because it’s like an incurable disease, it left scars in the family.” The funniest moment in the three-part series is that the couple were late for their own wedding, because Mampintsha booked a gig on their wedding day. The drama never ends with this music couple. — Sowetan.