The Herald Herald Reporter Rwandan Ambassador to Zimbabwe James Musoni and United Nations Resident Coordinator to Zimbabwe Maria Ribeiro yesterday paid courtesy calls on Foreign Affairs and International Trade Minister Ambassador Frederick Shava. The Zimbabwe Investment and Development Agency (ZIDA) was set up along the lines of the Rwanda Development Board (RDB), and is mandated to give an exhaustive investment prospectus to would-be investors. The RDB is credited for the economic turnaround witnessed in Rwanda in recent years, and Zimbabwe is committed to walking the business reform agenda. The impetus to fast track the establishment of ZIDA came after President Mnangagwa visited Rwanda and toured the RDB in 2018. In a statement last night, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Trade announced the courtesy call by the envoys. “Ambassador Musoni was paying his first courtesy call since Ambassador Shava was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs, and took the opportunity to convey a message from his Rwandese counterpart to invite him to attend the Rwanda-Zimbabwe Investment conference to be held later in July. “The also discussed bilateral cooperation issues, which include the recently held Joint Permanent Commission between the two countries which was held virtually in March 2021. “During the investment conference, Zimbabwe is expected to send almost 100 companies to the business indaba to be held in Kigali.” Zimbabwe is also walking the re-engagement agenda and the United Nations as well as its agents are expected to play a critical role in this regard. “United Nations Resident Coordinator Mrs Maria Ribeiro also paid a courtesy call on the Ambassador Shava, and they also discussed Zimbabwe’s Covid-19 response and commended the country’s quick response to the pandemic,” reads part of the statement by the Ministry. “Mrs Ribeiro also applauded Zimbabwe’s bumper harvest and said it will build resilience in food security through food reserves and socio-economic growth of vulnerable communities in the country.”