The Herald His Excellency Xi Jinping, General Secretary of the Communist Party of China and President of the People’s Republic of China, BEIJING. Your Excellency and Dear Brother, On behalf of the Central Committee, of the Zimbabwe African National Union Patriotic Front (ZANU PF), the entire membership of the Party and indeed on my own behalf, I would like to extend my heartfelt congratulations to the Communist Party of China (CPC) and Your Excellency President Xi Jinping on the occasion of the 1OOth Anniversary. The Communist Party of China continues to provide a sustainable alternative development path and governance model to advance the prosperity of diverse communities of the world, in the context of today’s realities. The CPC’s Ideology of Socialism with Chinese Characteristics has tremendously transformed the socio-economic fabric and lifted millions within your country out of poverty. Comprehensive and multi-level Chinese diplomacy makes it possible for us in the developing world to believe in a brighter, future mutual cooperation and win-win outcomes anchored on the doctrine of non-interference in the internal affairs of other states. As my country journeys towards an Upper Middle Income Economy by 2030, ZANU PF remains committed to work, consolidate, deepen and broaden relations with the Communist Party of China to advance the establishment of a global system which is free from poverty and socio-economic exploitation. In this regard, Zimbabwe welcomes increased Chinese investments and partnerships in every sector of our economy. In the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, China’s leadership and its unwavering stance in promoting multi-lateralism in the global health sector is applauded. Resultantly, the developing world and other smaller nations have got access to COVID-19 vaccines. It is through China ‘s generosity and access to Chinese vaccines that Zimbabwe is successfully rolling out its National COVID-19 Vaccination Programme. ZANU PF is confident that under the tested leadership of the Communist Party of China, the Chinese people will achieve the two centenary goals of building a prosperous society and turning China into a great modem socialist country by 2049. The Party, ZANU PF and the people of Zimbabwe as a whole wish the Communist Party of China and great people of China happiness, prosperity and continuous development as you celebrate 100 years of the CPC. Happy centenary celebrations! Please accept, Your Excellency and Dear Brother, the assurances of my highest consideration.  Yours sincerely, Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa PRESIDENT AND FIRST SECRETARY OF ZANU P.F 