The Herald RIO DE JANEIRO. – Lionel Messi and Neymar will line up opposite each other in the Copa America final looking to end a hoodoo that has also affected some of their countries’ greatest players. Like Brazil’s Pele and Diego Maradona of Argentina before them, neither Messi nor Neymar, has ever won the Copa. That statistic will change for one of them, in the dream final at Rio de Janeiro’s iconic Maracana tomorrow. For six-time Ballon d’Or winner Messi, this will be his fourth Copa final and perhaps his last chance, to finish on the winning side. He’s been his team’s standout performer, as ever, scoring four goals and creating five more – the tournament leader in both categories. But at 34, this may well be his last Copa and next year’s World Cup could be his last major international tournament altogether. So far, finals have led only to disappointment for Messi having lost in 2007, 2015 and 2016 at the Copa, and seen his side beaten 1-0 by Germany at the 2014 World Cup. Some people believe winning something with Argentina is Messi’s only remaining professional goal. “We’ll try to stop him achieving this objective,” said Brazil centre-back Marquinhos. “As much as Messi, we also have players that deserve this title … like our own ‘Ney’ who wasn’t there for the last Copa,” he added. At 29, Neymar has a bit more time on his side but he was injured and absent two years ago when Brazil won their ninth title on home soil, beating Peru 3-1 in the final. But as well as the two superstars lining up on opposite sides tonight, this is a classic match between two world heavyweights. “We’re going to play a final against our eternal rivals, the lifelong ones, the two most powerful national teams in South America and we hope … it will be a great match,” said Argentina coach Lionel Scaloni. “Brazil versus Argentina is much more than a simple game of football … these jerseys make the world stand still to watch their games. That represents the history of Brazil-Argentina,” added Marquinhos. –AFP