The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE youth international Abubakar Moffat believes his career is on the right path in Spain after he was unveiled, at a new club, yesterday. The 23-year-old Aces Youth Academy graduate was signed by La Liga lower-tier side, CD Estepona. Moffat has been at FC Malaga City Academy, for the past three years, and he believes the move to CD Estepona, will open doors for his growth. He says he hopes to play in the Spanish top-flight league and is confident the process is in motion, after moving two divisions, up to the fifth tier. “I feel good, I mean, I feel like I’m on a right path and I’m just being patient and trusting the process and I believe that I will get there where I want to be. “This move means a lot because seeing myself having offers left, right and centre, and getting a chance to sign with this club, is something that shows I’m on the right path. “I just need to trust the process, and be patient, I believe that I will reach where I want to be,” said Moffat. The midfielder moved to Spain in 2018, when he joined FC Malaga City Academy from AYSA, who are known for producing top players. Several national team players like Knowledge Musona, Khama Billiat, Martin Mapisa, George Chigova and Donovan Bernard passed through the academy, which celebrates 20-year milestone this year. The talented midfielder was placed at Malaga City, along with AYSA teammates Nicholas Guyo, Kundai Mukweva and Warriors goalkeeper, Mapisa. Mapisa has since moved up the divisions and is now playing in the third tier with Zamora. Moffat established himself at Malaga City and became a prominent figure, at the club, featuring in a number of high-profile games, against the likes of Atlético Madrid, Sevilla CF, Granada CF and Malaga CF. After an impressive season with the academy’s senior team, CD Almuñecar City, the midfielder was signed by Tercera División, side Velez CF, where he was a regular, throughout the 2019/20 campaign. He then returned to FC Malaga City, at the beginning of this season, representing the senior team, who competed in Primera Andaluza (Málaga). He has also featured for the Zimbabwe Under-23 side. “It has been good at Malaga City, I had a great time and a good season and I have learnt a lot during my time there,’’ he said. ‘’I have enjoyed every moment there so I would just want to thank them for taking good care of me. “I’m seeing myself playing for bigger clubs in Spain, and making my dreams come true, which is to play in La Liga.” CD Estepona play in the Tercera División — Group 9, which is the fifth tier of Spanish league football. They are excited by the arrival of Moffat. “CD Estepona secures the services of Abubakar Moffat, better known sportingly as BAKA, becoming the fourth signing of Hugo Díez’s team for next season,” the club said in a statement. “The 23-year-old soccer player from Zimbabwe works in the midfield position, he is a player with great physical power and very supportive in the defensive work of his team. “BAKA comes from the Málaga City Academy, with this team they were promoted to the Division of Honor last season. “In addition, he has experience in the 3rd Division with Vélez CF, in the Vivar Téllez team he coincided with our sports director, Lucas Cazorla, who is the person who has worked the most, on signing him.”