The Herald Tadious Manyepo
Sports Reporter
AFTER being restricted to cameo roles at his English Championship football side AFC Bournemouth in the past season, Warriors utility player Jordan Zemura looks poised to become a core member of the team in the coming season. The 21-year-old, who is often deployed at left-back, is currently in Spain with the rest of the squad where the Cherries are on pre-season preparations. He made just seven appearances in all competitions last term but he looks well in new manager Scott Parker’s plans. Parker was appointed this month with the former Fulham gaffer expected to steer Bournemouth back into the English Premier League after the team came agonisingly close to bounce back via play-offs last month. Parker has gone for a youthful squad averaging 25 years and after the departure of two midfielders, Jack Wilshere and Nnamdi Ofoborh as well as winger Rodrigo Requelme, Zemura is now expected to play a key role in helping the team win a ticket back into the top-flight. Speaking to The Herald from Spain, Zemura said places are not guaranteed but he will have to work hard to become a regular in the team. “I am happy that I have been retained in the team,” said Zemura. “It is a feel-good development. My first two seasons were very fruitful as I was able to learn the ropes. “Sometimes I would play for the development team and I did everything to try and improve several aspects of my game. “I believe I have now matured but I feel I should also work extra hard to try and earn a regular place in the team. “There are a lot of good, very good players in our team and we can only complement each other.” Zemura said the team will try and push for promotion this coming season. “Obviously that is the aim. We should apply ourselves effectively to try and earn a place back in the top-flight. “We almost clinched promotion back into the top league last season but we unfortunately failed. “This time we should try and do it automatically without going through the tough play-off phase. “Play-offs are very tough and you know your chance will be like 25 per cent since there will be four teams competing for a single slot. “So we must try and do it automatically. But, we will have to take it game by game. Its about being consistent in a tough, tough league but we stand a very good chance though.” Bournemouth were last night scheduled to play Granada in a friendly tie as they wrap up their Spanish training camp with a match against the La Liga outfit. They will also  face European champions Chelsea in one of their high-profile friendly on July 27 before they open their league cup campaign with a date against MK Dons on July 31. Parker’s side then begin their Championship campaign against West Brom on August 6 before a date with Nottingham Forest a week later. Zemura has become an important member of the Warriors after making his debut in November last year. He started a 2021 AFCON qualifier against Algeria in Algiers and proved his worth despite the team falling 1-3 in that match. He would also play his heart out and effectively cemented his place in the team in the reverse encounter, which ended in a 2-2 draw, at the National Sports Stadium.