The Herald LEGENDARY coach, Pitso Mosimane, believes its high time African football leaders believe in their own people and trust them with prominent coaching posts. He feels, at times, football leaders on the continent appear obsessed with anything European, at the expense of local talent. Speaking during a press conference, after he became the first African coach to win three CAF Champions League titles, the Al Ahly mentor had a bit of advice for Africa’s football leaders. He said the Egyptian giants had faith in him, when they could easily have hired a European coach to help them, through their dry patch. “We sometimes give the Europeans too much respect and forget who we are. Why is Sadio Mane and Mo Salah conquering the Champions League? “We just look for anybody (coach) from Europe and give him the team. “We have the resources, Africa has the resources. I mean the coach who was opposite from me, is from Europe (England), against Zamalek (the coach) was from Portugal, and is “Mourinho”. “Those things don’t matter in a match, so Africa should trust its own people.” Mosimane led Al Ahly to a 3-1 win over Kaizer Chiefs on Saturday night to secure a record 10th African crown for the Egyptian giants. He believes local coaches have not been respected by their own people. The South African feels Chiefs’ previous coaches, Gavin Hunt and Arthur Zwane, should have finished the race. Baxter was pushed into the spotlight, taking charge of his first match in the Champions League final, after his return to take charge of the Amakhosi. Many feel Chiefs should have continued with the formula which took them into the final, especially once Zwane took over the ship. Mosimane’s comments will fuel raging debate in Zimbabwe where there is a movement, for ZIFA to sack Warriors coach, Zdravko Logarusic, after one win in 12 matches. The Al Ahly gaffer believes FIFA should do more, to recognise African coaches, who are often overlooked, despite their impressive CVs. “There is much we can do, even the awards of the FIFA Player of the Year, the Ballon d’Or and Coach of the Year. “We don’t feature, it is only the Europeans who feature. I mean we have won trophies, I have won about nine but nobody cares, I am not the coach of Liverpool but the history stays.” He became only the fourth coach, in the 57-year history of the Champions League, to win back-to-back titles. He matched the record of the man, considered Ahly’s best coach of the modern era, Portuguese Manuel Jose, who achieved the feat in 2005 and 2006. Jose won four Champions League titles, and Mosimane now stands alone, in second place, on three. Ahly, who had not won the Champions League for seven years before Mosimane’s arrival, claimed their Decima of titles. It is the stuff of legends for Africa’s Club of the 20th Century, and their trailblazing coach. Mosimane and Baxter renewed a chess battle, which goes back to when they sparred for South Africa Premier Soccer League titles, when the latter was last at the Amakhosi, in the first half of the 2000s. Consequently, the opening half saw a tactical, absorbing exchange of movements of the pieces. More open than expected, Chiefs early on had the organisation that so troubled Wydad Athletic, at the same ground, in a 1-0 win in the semi-finals, but were more willing to commit numbers to the transition. As the half wore on, Ahly’s class showed when they lifted the tempo in the final third, creating situations that rattled the Amakhosi, and caused the SA club to lose shape. Mosimane kick-started his coaching career at SuperSport United in 2001, where he spent six years, as their head coach. He left SuperSport United for Bafana Bafana, with two trophies under his belt – the 2004 SAA Supa 8 and Absa Cup, now Nedbank Cup, in 2005. He would make a return to club football in December 2012, replacing Johan Neeskens at Mamelodi Sundowns. The Kagiso-born mentor went on to win five PSL titles, two Telkom Knockout Cup titles, two Nedbank Cup titles, the CAF Champions League and CAF Super Cup titles. Overall, Mosimane won 11 major trophies with Sundowns, before leaving the Tshwane giants for Al Ahly in October 2020. Upon his arrival in Cairo, he wrapped up the Egyptian Premier League before securing both Egyptian Cup and CAF Champions League titles. Mosimane would go on to win the CAF Super Cup in Qatar in what was his second with two different teams — Sundowns and Al Ahly. And, Saturday’s win over Chiefs saw Mosimane lift his 18th career trophy as head coach. It is also worth mentioning Mosimane is currently South Africa’s most decorated coach. PITSO MOSIMANE’S TROPHY CABINET AS COACH SA Premier Soccer League X 5 CAF Champions League X 3 CAF Super Cup X 2 Telkom Knockout Cup X 2 Nedbank Cup X 2 Absa Cup X 1 SAA Supa8 X 1 Egyptian Premier League X 1 Egyptian Cup X 1 – Sports Reporter/Agencies