The Herald Sports Reporter DYNAMOS coach, Tonderai Ndiraya, has briefly excused himself from the Warriors training camp to lead his side, in a Chibuku Super Cup match against Herentals, at the National Sports Stadium this afternoon. The coach is part of the Warriors technical crew for the COSAFA Cup, set for South Africa, starting next week. ZIFA indicated last week the Warriors will be training in a bio-secure environment. However, the DeMbare coach, and his players, have granted leave to exit the bubble. Ndiraya joined the Dynamos players, technical team and support staff, when they took Covid-19 tests, at Parirenyatwa, yesterday. Three Dynamos players, Shadreck Nyahwa, King Nadolo and Godknows Murwira are part of the Warriors squad. The other teams, with players in the Warriors training camp, however, are unlikely to enjoy the same privilege, when the other groups begin the second round campaign, at the weekend. Movement across cities has been curtailed, following the recent announcement the country is tightening its lockdown measures. The Warriors are expected to leave for South Africa on Monday. Dynamos finished the first round matches unbeaten, and lead Group One, with 11 points. The Glamour Boys hold the aces, in their group, and will be looking to extend their lead, at the top, after nearest rivals, CAPS United, choked yesterday. The Green Machine crashed to a 1-2 defeat at the hands of a vastly-improved Yadah Stars. Herentals are the only team yet to win a match in the group. Coach Kumbirai Mutiwekuziva’s men are under pressure, to start winning games, even though their chances of progressing to the quarter-finals, are now slim. The Chibuku Super Cup returns full throttle this weekend, and organisers will be hoping the clubs will not be hampered by many Covid-19 cases, emerging in their stables. The league bosses were forced to postpone one game, after ZPC Kariba players and officials, tested positive. There were also reports Triangle, who are scheduled to resume their campaign against Ngezi Platinum Stars, at the weekend, had a number of players, and officials, who tested positive. The PSL leadership have been working closely with their parent body, ZIFA, to try and ensure the Chibuku Super Cup goes on smoothly, in these challenging times. They have also been working closely with the Sports Commission and, in the first round of the fixtures, only three Covid-19 cases were reported, among the players, and officials. Fixtures Today: Dynamos v Herentals Saturday: Triangle United v Ngezi Platinum Stars, Mandava Stadium – 11am, Black Rhinos v Tenax, Sakubva Stadium – 1pm, Chicken Inn v Bulawayo City, Barbourfields Stadium – 3pm Sunday: FC Platinum v Whawha, Mandava Stadium – 11am, Highlanders v Bulawayo Chiefs, Barbourfields – 1pm, Cranborne Bullets v Manica Diamonds, Sakubva – 3pm