The Herald Mash Central Bureau
ZANU PF has fulfilled the promises it made to the people during the run up to the 2018 elections and is confident of a resounding victory in the forthcoming 2023 harmonised elections, the party’s Vice President and Second Secretary Cde Kembo Mohadi has said. Speaking during a familiarisation tour in Bindura on Monday, Cde Mohadi said the party has demonstrated that it deserves to be voted into office again in 2023. He said his provincial meetings come midway towards the next election and called on the party to self-introspect and reflect on its performance, with an eye on accomplishing its goal of improving the peoples’ lives. “It is the story of the stabilisation of our currency and ultimately the economy, the dams that are being constructed, the roads that are being constructed and many other things that we are doing,” said VP Mohadi. “This is what will make us march with confidence as the Zanu PF Government and our leaders towards a resounding victory. With what we have achieved and what we are doing as Zanu PF, it should be easy for us to canvas for people’s support. “As a party, we are happy that even the most ardent of sceptics and critics of Zanu PF, now acknowledge the milestones we have achieved as a Second Republic under the leadership of President Mnangagwa.” VP Mohadi said the dream of preserving the party begins with winning elections, starting with the capacity to deliver victory for President Mnangagwa’s candidature as well as the party in the forthcoming. He added that it was important to continuously reflect on the revitalisation of the party and its organs as key variables of growing the party. Cde Mohadi said he was in Mashonaland East Province last week where transformational projects that the Zanu PF Government is embarking on such as the Acadia Lithium project and the steel projects, will intersect provinces and create employment for citizens. Zanu PF provincial chairperson Cde Kazembe Kazembe said all administrative districts were represented and a few people were invited due to the Covid-19 restrictions. “Cde Mohadi came to unite us, to check on the progress on the restructuring process and guide us on the way forward as per the expectation of the President,” he said. “As a province, we feel empowered to go out and grow the party. With regards to preparation for the Annual People’s Conference, we are moving on with preparations well.”