The Herald Arts Reporter
A musical feast was served as cellular services operator, NetOne, unveiled a compilation album titled One World. The album was recently launched on One TV YouTube channel and online music stores on 25 June. The album Included eight explosive tracks from locally acclaimed bands and talented artistes such as gospel maestro Tinashe Magacha, Hip Hop star Natasha Muz, multi-talented John Cole, singer and actress LeeMchoney, record producer Chiweddar, the versatile Allanah, dancehall artiste Jah Signal, the multi hyphenate star Probeatz, the ever green rapper Holy Ten and dendera royalty Allan Chimbetu, and Afro-fusion artiste Mbeu. The song list is as follows, mega hip hop star Holy Ten delivers on “Figo” while Jah Signals features with his track titled “Vasikana”. For a dose of the legendary Dendera ululation, Allan Chimbetu serves “Murudo.”Mufaro’ by Allanah, “Fambe Fambe” from ProBeatz and “Handivadaire” performed by “Mbeu.” Collaborations on the album included the versatility of rap star Natasha Muz with a worship element and melodic guitars layered with the voice of Tinashe Magacha in “Ndoenda”. Actress and singer Lee Mchoney joined super star choreographer/musician John Cole as well as the voice of producer Chiweddar on a track titled “Candy” which vibes on Zimpiano fusion. NetOne acting head for marketing and PR Dennis Chagonda said:  “We are very excited having launched OneAlbum on NetOne’s new online TV channel OneTV. “OneTV is a strategy to broadcast shareable, interactive and sustained content that will motivate the customer to want to always be in touch with the brand. “Consumption of digital content has greatly increased over the past few years and was further accelerated by the 2019 novel coronavirus-induced lockdown restrictions that left artistes without income sources as gatherings were prohibited up to now, hence digital is the way to go. “Viewers can go to our OneTV channel on YouTube and Facebook for highly entertaining content which we will continue to showcase as the programme gathers momentum.” Apart from informing, educating and entertaining, the platform will also be used to broadcast NetOne products. The platform is a great tool for creating brand awareness as an increasing number of people are spending a lot of time on the platform, thus interaction with Neton- related content is most likely.