The Herald Tinashe Nyamushanya What is more cliché than the phrase, “ a man is not defined by the number of times he falls or rises, but failure is the best teacher”? I have heard that line many times. Some people wake up to failure, when realisation strikes like a bolt of lightning, then decide to take the bull by the horns. But there are those who are proactive, who decide to think, work smart and put their knowledge to good use. Well, sometimes failure is the wakeup call one needs to jump start his engine but why go through all that? Who said for you to be a success, someone needs to narrate a glorious life story riddled with failure and never ending misery before getting to the good part? Don’t get me wrong, not all roads are smooth but in this fast paced era of technology filled with a surfeit of information how do you get lost? They say learn from your mistakes. Why waste time failing and trying to experience failure first when you can avoid it at times? I say capitalise and and learn from other people’s mistakes. Smart learning Observation is the key. This way you avoid falling into pits and traps your predecessors fell into, all because of poor planning and using principles, or the lack thereof. From the sublime to the ridiculous, even the prominent actors have used and incorporated one or two if not all principles needed for success. World over, people especially us Africans, are yet to have this conversation and even those who choose to have it, murmur privately, the use of principles I am not here to discuss principles but by definition a principle is a canon, rule or simply something established as a standard or test, for measuring, regulating, or guiding conduct or practice. These make you the person you want to be, the person you see yourself as, every time you look in the mirror. You need to have the correct mindset, a  mindset of a winner, a driven individual with no self pity. Put in the work. Hardwork pays if the work is done properly because at the end of the day you want results. In life there are two kinds of “hard” that, as an individual, you will encounter.  Being poor is hard and being rich is hard too.  Being rich and successful is hard because for you to get there and maintain that  status, it takes a lot of work, but you will be bawling in richness and flashing money when ever you feel like it. Poor is also hard because life is hard, literally, and you have nothing. But its not every day you get twins, you got to choose which hard you want.  The hard with  money or the one without. There is no way that you can be a great person if you do not work hard. Yes you can go to a fortune teller and all those people but you can never outsmart life into giving you anything that you didn’t work for. We live in a world of cause and effect.  What you do today, what you read and what you think determines the kind of person you will be, the kind of life that you will have. Pray, meditate for spirituality balance then work like you owe yourself the world.  Stop being lazy, stop whining, stop procrastination. Wake up every morning with the right attitude.  This determines how the rest of your day goes, whether a step in the right direction , or fruitless. Success has a formula. Pray and ask God. Tell him what you want. Believe in Him and yourself and faith without works is dead. Believing in yourself, that you will make it without putting in the work to actually try and make it is a waste of energy on your part. In these trying times its not about how educated you are, it’s about grabbing every opportunity you have, using it to make your life better. Be strong, persistent, brave, wise and tactful. No matter how low you feel put a smile on your face and soldier on. Everyone has problems, but we are responsible for how we react to those problems. What doesn’t kill you makes you stronger. Just get the job done well and you will get your reward. The best way to get the job done is to love what you do. Loving what you do has everything to do with your purpose. Your purpose is linked to your passion. Life will only change when you are committed to changing it and focusing on your dreams then the way you are to your comfort zone. Gold is more expensive when it has passed through fire. If you are not willing to go through fire, sit  back, relax and watch your life turn into a joke. Risk takers always get to drink the best tea. The most expensive tea is called Da Hong Pao. You will never be able to taste this if you’re not a risk taker. Unleash the inner beast in you. Success has a formula. Pray and ask God. Tell him what you want. Believe in Him and yourself and faith without works is dead. Believing in yourself, that you will make it without putting in the work to actually try and make it is a waste of energy on your part. In these trying times its not about how educated you are, it’s about grabbing every opportunity you have, using it to make your life better. Be strong, persistent, brave, wise and tactful.