The Herald Blessings Chidakwa Herald Reporter The oral recording, archiving and curating of the country’s liberation war stories from those who participated or witnessed the liberation war commences today following the opening of Institute of African Knowledge recording studio yesterday. Officially opening the studio at the Museum of African Liberation in Harare yesterday, Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services Minister Monica Mutsvangwa expressed gratitude in the significant milestone in the journey of establishing the Museum of African Liberation. Minister Mutsvangwa said not so long ago President Mnangagwa came to the Museum of African Liberation for the historic ground breaking ceremony and paved the way for the setting up of Instak camp offices. “Over the past few months, we have seen humble office structures being set up on site which on its own is a strong indicator of the resolve and drive by Instak in ensuring that this project gathers momentum even under such trying circumstances. May our liberation war stories be captured for future generations to learn from. “So, when we gather today to give birth to the Instak recording studio we are sending another strong statement in our efforts to effectively collect oral evidence from various stakeholders who took part, directly or indirectly, in the Zimbabwe liberation struggle,” she said. Minister Mutsvangwa said the main objective of the recording studio is to accord an opportunity to everyone who took part or witnessed the liberation war to come up and have their stories recorded, archived and curated in the Museum of African Liberation. “This will go a long way in helping capture the valuable information which we are sadly and continuously losing day by day when our sons and daughters pass on with their liberation war stories,” she said. “Many illustrious liberation war personalities have passed on without having their first hand knowledge and information on our liberation war being captured for posterity and legacy preservation. This has left the nation crying out even louder for such efforts as demonstrated by Instak to avail such tools and opportunities as this recording studio will provide.” Minister Mutsvangwa further called upon for the consideration of coming up with efforts to also write books for publication of such stories as will be captured during the various recording sessions at this studio. “This will also allow some of us with hearing impediments to also be able to read the various stories of our liberation war. We need to have both electronic and print versions of the liberation stories. “Once these stories are captured, we can also avail them digitally to allow even international learners to access our stories on various digital platforms. Let us not just record and keep the stories but also have them accessible for consumption by people from all corners of the world,” she said. Minister Mutsvangwa commended Instak for the sterling and rapid works they are exhibiting at the museum. “To imagine that what we are seeing here, ‘pachikomo’ as we call it, is only six months work is amazing and surely such efforts cannot go unrecognised and must be applauded. “Such huge goals have been scored as developing a massive and state of the art modern museum design by President Mnangagwa, mobilisation of liberation war artefacts from renowned liberation personalities, establishment of Zimbabwe Defence Forces Military Exhibition Park and a successful Chimurenga Music competition among many other milestone achievements,” she said.