The Herald SILVERSTONE. — Max Verstappen and his Red Bull team will seek a potentially decisive “knockout” triumph over defending champions Mercedes, and home hero Lewis Hamilton, in this weekend’s British Grand Prix. After reeling off his first hat-trick of successive wins to move 32 points clear of seven-time champion Hamilton, the 23-year-old Dutchman is in imperious form. Red Bull are revelling in five straight victories to lead both championships after nine races. But he recognises that Hamilton (36) remains a formidable force, especially on home soil at Silverstone. The Briton has won a record seven times at the often windswept former war-time airfield in central England where a capacity crowd of 140 000 is expected on Sunday. It will be the biggest attendance at a sports event in Britain since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic. “I have great respect for Lewis and we are taking nothing for granted,” said Verstappen. “We are taking each race one at a time, but, of course, I am hoping to come out of the race with 29 points.” Normally it would be a maximum of 25 points for a victory and one for the fastest lap. There are additional points on offer this weekend through “The Sprint” which is being used for the first time as an alternative to the traditional qualifying. It will take place tomorrow afternoon and, like traditional qualifying, will decide the grid positions for Sunday’s 52-lap race. The sprint is part of an experimental format aimed at attracting a younger audience with the top three awarded three, two and one point respectively. They will also be taken on a victory parade lap and presented with “retro” wreaths in a salute to the sport’s history. The 100km non-stop race will take around half an hour. Starting positions for “The Sprint” will be decided by a three-part qualifying hour this afternoon, replacing second free practice. That will mean today’s opening free practice hour is the team’s only chance to find a competitive set-up for the conditions. Further sprints are due to be held in Italy and at one other race later in the season. Hamilton and Mercedes will be under acute pressure as they attempt to arrest their slide. The Englishman is without a win in five races since the Spanish Grand Prix in May, when he led the title race. — AFP.