The Herald Hello friends… This week we continue with some preliminaries. Don’t be discouraged, we are almost getting to the meaty stuff: however, the ground must be fully levelled for us to enjoy the journey. Many of us will be eager to know how to make and prepare our own remedies. For this reason I am providing a handy table for your reference. 1. Infusions • Usually dried leaves, skins, flowers for example zumbani. • Keep covered if dried because if kept green they can lose their essential oils very quickly • Always pour hot water over herbs and allow them to sit for five minutes or more • Drink the tea right away or store in a refrigerator for future use • They work best on an empty stomach • No sugar to be added except pure honey or lemon to taste 2. De concoctions • Stronger than teas or infusions • Twigs , stems or dried roots • Keep for longer in hot water ( Simmer for 20-30 minutes ) • Can be boiled to extract medicinal properties • Strain and drink ( Works better on an empty stomach ) 3. Compress or fomentation such as “muchcheni” For external use When a towel is soaked in the medicine it can be wrapped around the affected area.  A hot compress or fomentation means that the soaked towel can be used alongside a hot water bottle compress. These are best for spastic or muscle spasms or tension as they relax and warm the body 4. Poultice Pastes made from herbs for external injuries & infections such as boils. They stimulate circulation, reduce infection and pull out toxins through the skin, and also reduce irritations. • Crush herbs • Add clay , olive oil or egg white to bind herbs together • Apply paste & change 2-4 times daily 5. Tinctures Concentrated herbal extracts • Use dropper for placing drops in water , juice , or drink • May be used externally Chewable Chew & swallow for example liquorish. That being said, we have come to an end of the introduction of basics. Next week we go straight into which herb foods to use for different health benefits. Our health is our wealth, so let us make our food our medicine. Look after yourself and each other. God bless Miriam Nyasha Kwari/0773378571/ herbalmiraclesolutions@gmail.com