The Herald Herald Reporter Vice President Dr Constantino Chiwenga yesterday took time on his 65th birthday to counsel youths to pull in the same direction in the quest to build the Zimbabwe they want. His sentiments come at a time the country has been placed on a developmental trajectory since the coming in of the Second Republic led by President Mnangagwa. “First and foremost, you have to identify yourself and the most important thing is to understand that you are a Zimbabwean,” said VP Chiwenga. “You can go anywhere to further your education or to get experience, but once you have done that you have to come back to your motherland and develop your motherland. “Even if you were born out of the country, you must trace your motherland. There is no need for you to charm other nationalities; yours is the best,” he said. VP Chiwenga talked of the riches abound in the country which included the fertile agricultural land, tourist resort areas, mineral resources, saying they were for Zimbabweans to develop. He said development witnessed in other countries was a result of resilience and hard work by those from the concerned countries. “All we are seeing happening in other countries is that the people have put their minds together and they have worked very hard and that is what the youths should understand. “Even Biblically, it says you will not reap where you did not sow. “Nothing is impossible and everything can be done and can be achieved,” said the Vice President. VP Chiwenga reminisced on the days of the liberation struggle saying victory did not come on a silver platter. “You know when we went to the struggle we were just like yourselves. We were youths, 17-years-old, 16-years-old. “We thought we could easily liberate the country, but that was not the case. On the ground, it was different. First there was no food, no medication, no clothing.” “I think you have heard stories where you could suffer from all kinds of diseases, but because of the orientation we had, that victory was certain, we kept going.” VP Chiwenga talked of the role his grandfather played in moulding him to become a selfless warrior. “The driving force was my grandfather from who I inherited the name Guveya Chiwenga. He was arrested and used to be taken in and out of prison. “After his release from Gonakudzingwa in February 1965, he passed on in October 1965. He said I was supposed to fulfil what he did not manage. “He was detained together with the late Vice President Dr Joshua Nkomo.” VP Chiwenga was treated to a surprise birthday event  by his staff and his son Gamuchirai, who was roped in to be part of the team.