The Herald Crime Reporter NINE robbers armed with machetes and guns raided two houses in separate incidents in Masvingo and Dzivaresekwa in Harare over the weekend and got away with US$25 000 cash and $13 000 as cases of thieves targeting people with large amounts of cash at home, surge countrywide. No arrests have been made so far and police have intensified their investigations on the two cases. In Masvingo, five robbers attacked the family early in the morning while armed with machetes before stealing US$21 000 while in Dzivaresekwa, four robbers raided a farm house and got away with property worth US$4 000 and $13 100. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi confirmed the incidents and urged the public to avoid keeping large amounts of cash at home. “The Zimbabwe Republic Police is investigating a robbery case which occurred at Runyararo South West, Masvingo on July 3, 2021 at around 0200hours where a family was attacked by five unknown suspects armed with machetes. “The assailants, severely assaulted the owner of the house and stole US$21 000 cash and four Samsung cellphones. Meanwhile, police reiterate that members of the public must not keep large sums of money in homes,” he said. Asst Comm Nyathi said they were also investigating another robbery incident that occurred at Broody farm, Spitzkop in Harare. “On July 2, 2021 at around 2100 hours four unknown suspects, pounced on a farm house in Dzivaresekwa and stole goods worth over US$4 000 and $13 100,” he said. Cases of armed robberies have been on the increase countrywide with criminals targeting individuals and businesspeople keeping large amounts of cash in their homes and premises. Over the weekend, seven dangerous robbers were arrested in separate incidents under a special operation during which two of the suspects were shot and killed in a shoot-out with the police and had been targeting individuals and businesspeople keeping large amounts of cash. The operation leading to their arrests follows President Mnangagwa’s recent stern warning to armed robbers countrywide that they would be brought to book. Some of the robbers are understood to have been behind the March 28 raid at Gateway High School in Harare where they made off with US$250 000. During the past few years, they have been in and out of prison on bail pending trial for committing violent crimes. Five of them have since appeared in court on allegations of armed robbery while the other two — Benjamin Craig Musasa and Richard Mutanga are now deceased after sustaining injuries as the police crack team closed in on them. Those that have appeared in court are Valentine Mutasa, Juliet Gavaza and Godfrey Josi while the duo of Zvidozvashe Zuda and Peter Mushipe have been remanded in their respective hospital beds where they are nursing wounds after the shoot-out. Investigations have revealed that one of them, Zvinodashe Zuda was supplying the robbers with guns and ammunition.