The Herald Edmore Maziofa Youth Interactive Correspondent A new ground-breaking youth initiative has been launched in Norton to invest in youth led solutions and engagements through art and sports. Dubbed the “Youth Talent Management Centre” (YTMC), the initiative is the brain child of two young entrepreneurs Thabani Mlauzi and Joseph Katsande who are targeting young people between the age of 18 and 30 years from Norton and all other areas around the country. According to the founder members, the youth-led initiative is aimed at helping in the creation of economic opportunities for the youth, tackling unemployment, increase incomes, and combat rising poverty among young people because of the Covid-19  pandemic scourge. In an interview with Joseph Katsande, he said this enterprise was also designed to strengthen youth income-generating capacity by developing their soft and hard skills, and by offering job finding assistance. “YTMC also said it intends to engage other private sectors in financing activities aimed at promoting innovation and increase economic opportunities for their youth. The activities range from sports disciplines such as cricket and football where they conduct galas and musical shows,” he said. “On the musical side, the two collaborators have a recording studio in Norton where some of the youth are given free recording opportunities then later on assisted in the marketing of their music. “The recording studio is owned by music award winner and producer Xander who also stays in the same town.” Thabani Mlauzi added that the initiative will see the creation of collaborative solutions to the most pressing challenges identified by Zimbabwean youth. “This is also a breather to all the problems caused by Covid-19 pandemic and the persistent lockdown. “As young people, we saw it necessary to help each other, we don’t have much, but the little we have will go a long way. It should be known that youth represent energy, creativity and innovation and should be beacons of hope that can support the community and this nation in these times of Covid-19 crisis,” Thabani said. At the moment, a sizable number of youth have from the YTMC and some of the notable artists who benefited are renowned singer from Norton MC Doc, Langton Chembere and Takudzwa Maisiri just to mention a few. “Through this initiative a lot of artists have managed to do their work under the current lockdown conditions. “YTMC has opened windows because before it we were stuck.”