The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWEAN midfielder Tichaona Chipunza says he felt weird during his first season in Zambia as his team, Nkana, had to survive relegation on the last day of the campaign. Chipunza joined the Kitwe-based giants soon after they were knocked out of the CAF Champions League football earlier this year. The club’s fortunes also took a nosedive in the domestic Premiership and had to fight tooth and nail to maintain their top-flight status. “I am very happy we survived. It was not an easy season. Nkana are a big team, just like Dynamos are in Zimbabwe. So you know the pressure of playing for a big team. “Besides having to adjust to their language, we also had challenges that whenever the team changed coaches, the new man will come with different methods of play. “Now I want to come back home then decide about next season. I just hope and wish it will a great season wherever I will be playing after this tough season. It never happened to me before, to be involved in the fight for survival against relegation,” said Chipunza. Nkana are also home to Warriors’ goalkeeper Talbert Shumba and defenders Kelvin Moyo, Jimmy Dzingai and Takudzwa Chimwemwe. The Kitwe-based side are one of the giants of Zambian football. They won their 13th Zambian league title last year, but things turned upside down. They faced the inglorious prospects of falling from the glory of being champions to getting relegated. However, Nkana survived relegation on the final day following a goalless draw against NAPSA Stars while a twist of events saw Young Green Eagles relegated following a ruling by Football Association of Zambia to award Nkana three points in a contested game against the Kafue based outfit. Nkana protested Young Green Eagles’ alleged use of an ineligible player who was serving a red card suspension in that match. While the five Zimbabwean players at Nkana survived, the duo of Denis Dauda and Dominic Chungwa were not so fortunate. Dauda’s Napsa Stars and Lumwana Radiants, where Chungwa is plying his trade, were relegated.