The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Should Willard Katsande walk onto the Mohammed V Stadium pitch in Casablanca on Saturday evening to face Al Ahly in the CAF Champions League final, he will write a special piece of Kaizer Chiefs history. Katsande shares the record with his Zimbabwean compatriot Tinashe Nengomasha of foreign players who have represented the Amakhosi the most in official matches, with 325 appearances, for the club. Now, he could hold the record, on his own. Katsande beams as he hears the names of just some of the fantastic foreign players who have worn the Amakhosi jersey over the years, like Ebson “Sugar” Muguyo, William Shongwe, Rabson Muchichwa, Knowledge Musona, Brazilian World Cup winner Jairzinho and Patrick Mabedi. “It gives me butterflies to hear some of the names that represented this brand in such a positive way. And, now I’m sitting here, sharing the same number of games, with an idol of mine, growing up, Tinashe Nengomasha,’’ he said. “If I look back, I was a herd boy without a father, a mother without a job. It’s an achievement and a source of great pride being the foreign player who has played the most games, for the Amakhosi. “This is something that really means a lot to me.’’ As he reflects on his journey, Katsande channels Nelson Mandela’s famous words that it always seems impossible, until it is done. “As I am sitting here with 325 games, it seems easy now. But, I look back at what this badge demands of you, when you are playing week in and week out, sometimes three games in seven days. “When you play well today, knowing you can’t get ahead of yourself, because fans will come for you for the next game. Every game you play for Kaizer Chiefs is like playing in a cup final. “But, I hope I can be an inspiration for young players who will play for the club in future, who will learn about the club’s history and hear about names like mine and Tinashe,” says Katsande. If there is one lesson Katsande could impart to young players, it’s that talent alone doesn’t guarantee you success. “When you look at players like Tinashe and I, people might say these guys are limited in terms of talent, but you can never fault their commitment,’’ he said. “You can’t be just a good player without passion, tenacity and commitment. It takes small things that you need to develop within yourself. “Learn from those who were in your position and draw inspiration from them. The requirements go beyond talent. And I’m really happy with where I am now. “I stood my ground and I’ve put myself in the history books of this beautiful club.’’ He certainly had plenty of examples to emulate among fellow Zimbabweans. “The words “Kaizer Chiefs” really mean something big in Zimbabwe. When you go to any street in Harare, any football fan knows Kaizer Chiefs inside out, from A to Z,’’ he said. “They track every bit of team news and follow the team fanatically on social media. It’s even bigger due to the Zimbabwean players who have worked very hard to achieve what they have with the club over the years. “Ebson “Sugar” Muguyo, Robson Muchichwa, Luke Jukulile, Claudius Zviripayi, Tinashe Nengomasha, Knowledge Musona, those players laid the foundation, they played their hearts out. “Every Zimbabwean player who has played at Chiefs has gone on to play a huge part in their national team. Kaizer Chiefs has been a very good home for us.’’ On Saturday, Katsande and his teammates will play in the ultimate Cup final, for the chance to be African champions. “As a Kaizer Chiefs family, we believe in ourselves, in our philosophy and in what we are going to dish out on match day,’’he said. “We have worked very hard in camp, the technical team is doing everything to ensure they make our roles as simple as possible and that everyone knows what is expected of them. “The unity, within the team, is very strong. “We have always been tight, but now we are even closer and we are all singing the same song. You can feel the spirit, it is not normal. “It is something very strong. We have been putting in the work and the guys are ready. We are going to be on another level of thinking when we take the plane to Morocco.” He has been around Naturena long enough to know just how significant this moment is for the club. “This club was formed in the 1970s, with the vision of being the best on the continent and to be recognised worldwide,’’ he said. “Getting the star that comes with being African champions will change the look of the club’s logo. “We are trying to achieve what the Chairman of this club (Kaizer Motaung) wanted, for the club to represent Africa and sell Kaizer Chiefs to the world. “It is something we really, really want.’’ — Kaizer Chiefs Media