The Herald ZIMBABWE international forward, Khama Billiat, is part of the Kaizer Chiefs squad which flew out Johannesburg yesterday, for their CAF Champions League final showdown, against Egyptian powerhouse, Al Ahly, on Saturday. The two clubs will battle for Africa’s most prestigious club trophy at the King Mohammed V Stadium in Casablanca, Morocco, on Saturday night. The Amakhosi left behind a burning South Africa, ravaged by days of civil unrest, which has seen shops being looted and buildings, and vehicles, being set alight in protests largely centred in KwaZulu Natal and Gauteng, Scores of people have been killed in the mayhem. The Glamour Boys feel they will also be playing to try and cheer the spirits of their country. “We are on our way to Morocco to fly the South African flag high,’’ the club said. “Our hearts remain with our loved ones and with South Africa during this difficult time.’’ There was some positive news, for the Chiefs fans, after it was announced the final will be broadcast on SuperSport. The CAF inter-club matches, just like the AFCON qualifiers, disappeared from the television screens, in the wake of a fallout, between the continent’s football governing body, and French company Lagardere, who held the rights. “The biggest club competition match in Africa is coming to SuperSport. We’re proud to announce SuperSport will broadcast the much-awaited and historic TotalEnergies CAF Champions League final featuring Kaizer Chiefs against Al Ahly this Saturday LIVE,’’ SuperSport announced. The Glamour Boys checked in at OR Tambo International Airport on Wednesday, three days before their biggest game, in history. Billiat, 30, was part of the Mamelodi Sundowns squad that won the 2016 edition of the continental showpiece and despite his injury-hit season, he played a crucial role in Chiefs’ journey this season. The Zimbabwe international scored a crucial late goal in their final Group C outing against Horoya that dumped the Guinea Ligue 1 champions out the competition and he admits it’s been an incredible rollercoaster of a season. “It’s a blessing to be where we are right now, the team has done well in a way of all the difficulties we went through during the [league] season to be able to focus for Champions League,” Billiat told the club’s media department. “The guys really did well to be where we are right now, it’s a great experience and it’s a blessing to be part of the team at the moment, it’s a lifetime experience that any other player would want to be in the [same] situation. “It requires a lot of hard work and to be mentally strong knowing that it’s no longer domestic, we meet the best of Africa and competing for a big trophy you know. I would say give credit to everyone who’s been part of this journey.” Chiefs’ opponents in the CAF Champions League Final, Al Ahly of Egypt, are the tournament’s most successful team, having been crowned African champions a record nine times. But, while Al Ahly have faced South African opponents 23 times in the tournament, this will be the first time two of the continent’s most supported teams meet in the CAF Champions League competition. Al Ahly and Chiefs met in the 2002 CAF Super Cup, after the Egyptians won the 2001 CAF Champions League and Chiefs the 2001 CAF Cup Winners Cup. Al Ahly won that game 4-1. Al Ahly have faced Mamelodi Sundowns, Orlando Pirates, Ajax Cape Town, SuperSport United, Bidvest Wits and Platinum Stars, but never faced Chiefs. The Amakhosi first competed in African club competition in 1993, when they took part in the Club of Champions Cup. They met Al Ahly’s rivals, Zamalek, in the second round, over two legs. Amakhosi shocked the tournament favourites and had them chasing shadows in the first leg, at Soccer City, as Chiefs dominated and won the game 2-1. Crucially, though, Chiefs conceded an away goal in Egypt and lost the second leg 1-0, exiting the tournament on away goals. It would take another eight years before Chiefs again faced an Egyptian team. — Sports Reporter/KickOff.com/Kaizer Chiefs Media.