The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter THE announcement of the Zimbabwe Under-21 women’s field hockey team’s qualification, for the Junior World Cup, has come as a relief for the side. The team qualified, based on their previous performance in 2016, when they finished as runners-up, at the Junior Africa Cup. This follows the cancellation of the Junior Africa Cup, which was scheduled for Windhoek, Namibia, from August 14 to 22, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The continental competition was serving as a qualifier, for the Junior World Cup,  with two teams qualifying in each category – men and women. However, the Africa Hockey Federation had to cancel the event. While the women’s team made it to the global showpiece, the men’s team will miss out, since they were not among the top two, at the 2016 continental event. The women’s team coach, Tendayi Maredza, is a relieved man, having previously expressed his concern, over the current circumstances, which had made it difficult for teams, to prepare for the Africa Cup. “Yes, it does come as a relief, challenging times for all, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but this will bring some joy, to the ladies team,’’ said Maredza. “Unfortunately, (we) can’t say the same for our men’s team, and all the other countries, which would have loved to participate in the tournament, and qualify for the Under-21 World Cup. “We would have loved to play, and qualify, during the qualifying tournament but we are living in uncertain times and tough decisions have to be made by the relevant authorities.” Zimbabwe join 2016 champions, South Africa, in the women’s section. The AfHF announced on Tuesday that having already postponed the Junior Africa Cup before, to next month, it was impossible for another postponement. “The AfHF has been forced to take this decision given the unfortunate news of the highly contagious Covid-19 variant hitting Namibia and the surrounding countries and the impossibility of having another postponement based on valid reasons as discussed with the FIH. “The decision has been taken with a heavy heart keeping in mind its impact on our young players amongst all stakeholders. ‘’The safety and well-being of our players, coaches, officials, administrators and fans remain our top priority,” said Africa Hockey. South Africa will host the Junior World Cup for women from December 5 to 16 and the men’s event is due to take place from November 25 to December 5 in India.