The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter FROM the rural settings of Chivhu, Charles Manyuchi is hoping to produce more boxing champions. The 31-year-old pugilist, who recently defended his WBF middleweight world title, in a three-title unifying match against Ugandan Mahomad Sebyala, is running a successful boxing academy, in his hometown. Director of the institution, Takudzwa Chibaya, believes the project is on course, in nurturing the next generation, of boxing champions.  The Charles Manyuchi Boxing Academy was registered in 2017, two years after the idea was first conceived. A few years down the line, they boast of six boxers, decorated with local and international, titles. “We started this academy to recruit talented youths so that we can groom them to become professional boxers. ‘‘The primary target was Chivhu, at first, but we realised that there was talent in other towns and cities, so we had to spread our wings,” said Chibaya. The stable currently have an enrolment of nine, comprising six professionals, and three amateurs.  Their main success story to date has been Brendon “Boyka” Denes, who holds the WBF and WBO light welterweight titles. They also have, under their wings Hassan Milanzi, the national champion (featherweight).  Hasan also holds the Universal Boxing African super bantamweight belt. Kudakwashe Chivandire has excelled on the women’s side, after capturing the World International Boxing Association bantamweight title. The other professional boxers in the stable include national flyweight champion Tinashe Majoni, Tatenda Biningu, who is the national bantamweight champion, and Evans Usavihwevhu, a national lightweight champion. “When we go out for recruitment, we give fair opportunities to all prospective boxers. ‘’But, we mainly look at qualities like the boxer’s attitude and the desire to overcome. “We like to work with candidates who have a championship mindset, even though they have not achieved anything yet. ‘‘We then help with the grooming to become professional boxers that they have always dreamt to be,” said Chibaya. The academy have two full-time coaches – Ali Phiri and Levison Ponde – and some external advisors, who include Zambian, Greetings Kaonga. The Zambian has always showed up when Manyuchi has a big fight. Zimbabwe has had many boxing greats in the past, the likes of Proud “Kilimanjaro” Chinembiri, Langton “Schoolboy” Tinago, Alfonse “Mosquito” Zvenyika and lately, Manyuchi. However, the growth of boxing has been negatively impacted by limited investment in the sector, as well as inadequate facilities.This has led Manyuchi in the past to travel to Zambia for special training. The academy has grand plans to build a state-of-the-art sports centre but they have been frustrated by a land dispute, involving the authorities, in Chivhu. The council availed a 50-hectare piece of land in 2016 for the project but Manyuchi is still to get title deeds. “When Manyuchi won the WBC welterweight title, he was allocated a piece of land in Chivhu by the Chikomba Rural District Council. “So, we sat down and decided that, instead of using that land for other projects, why not perpetuate Manyuchi’s legacy by investing back into sport, through establishing a multi-sports centre, which we still hope will produce more champions. “But, there was a change of management at the Chikomba Rural District Council. ‘‘The new leadership came with new things and shifted goal posts on what was originally agreed. “So, up to now, we are yet to get title deeds and we cannot develop. But, we believe this proposed sports complex is a great idea for development. “We have appealed to Government, through the Ministry of Sport, to help us in this issue, and we hope to be assisted,” said Chibaya.  The academy has not been spared by the effects of Covid-19. “Boxing in Zimbabwe lacks investment but we are grateful to our partners like Philgen Country Lodges in Chivhu and Flamboyant Hotel who always provide accommodation for our boxers.  We need more assistance to cater for our boxers. ‘‘It will be nice to move to our own place, where all the facilities are on site. We want proper training facilities. ‘‘The idea is to produce world-class boxers, both men and women. It’s possible, we have the capacity to do so, considering what we have achieved so far. “We would want to create a boxing economy where we can contribute to the country’s fiscus by exporting boxing talent,” said Chibaya.