The Herald LONDON – England go into tonight’s Euro 2020 semi-final knowing they face not only Denmark – but the demons of the past, too. The Three Lions booked a spot in the Euro 2020 semi-finals with a crushing 4-0 win over Ukraine in Rome on Saturday night. Gareth Southgate’s squad return to Wembley today taking on a resurgent Denmark in the last-four. But Southgate knows more than anyone else in the squad how tough England’s challenge will be. In an horrendous stat for the ‘‘It’s Coming Home’’ brigade, the Three Lions have only ever won one of their five major tournament semi-finals. That victory, though, came in 1966 when England beat Portugal 2-1 through two goals from Bobby Charlton en-route to lifting the trophy with a 4-2 final win over West Germany. Two years later at Euro 1968, England succumbed to a 1-0 semi-final loss at the hands of Yugoslavia. The Three Lions were forced to wait another 22 years to reach the last-four of a major tournament. That year, at Italia 90, England infamously lost 4-3 on penalties with Stuart Pearce and Chris Waddle missing crucial spot-kicks. Six years later and back on home soil, Terry Venables led England’s charge for redemption. Unfortunately, they lost at the same stage to the same opponents at Euro 96. This time it was current boss Southgate who fluffed his lines to hand the Germans a 6-5 win after the game finished 1-1 after extra-time. Again, England were made to wait 22 years for another semi-final. And Southgate was at the heart of it once more, as he guided his England team to the 2018 World Cup semi-finals. Kieran Trippier gave the Three Lions the perfect start with a sublime free-kick goal. But, they ultimately crashed out 2-1 after extra-time with the wait for a major tournament win forced to go on. Southgate will now lead his side into the Euro 2020 semis against Denmark, with England second favourites behind Italy to win it all, according to a supercomputer. But it’s not just Denmark, Spain and Italy standing in the way . . . it’s history. — The Sun