The Herald Pretoria. — Actress Ntando Duma says she is deeply sorry after a video of the star trying to defend herself against alleged “white old women”, who called her out for parking in a space reserved for drivers with disabilities, left the internet fuming. It all began on Instagram Stories, where “The Queen” star was seen sitting in her parked car when she was approached by women who asked her to move, as she was parked in a space reserved for people who use wheelchairs. The clip, which is apparently from last year, made the rounds on social media and went viral on Tuesday. In the now-deleted video, a woman’s voice can be heard telling Ntando that she had parked her car in a spot reserved for people with disabilities, urging her to leave. However, an annoyed Ntando hit back at the lady, saying how did she know that the star wasn’t disabled herself. The actress then went off at the woman in a scathing rant, hurling profanities. “Your mother is mentally disabled…” Mzansi got hold of the video and were up in arms at the whole ordeal, which landed the actress on the Twitter trends list. Many felt that the star came off as rude in the video, and slammed the way she spoke to the faceless women. Fans also said the star was discriminating towards people with disabilities by parking in the reserved space. After the backlash, Ntando has apologised for the viral video. Taking to Twitter with a statement, the star said she had a reason for parking in the spot for those with disabilities, as the food establishment she was frequenting asked her to park in that spot. “In light of a recording from last year which has recently surfaced, I would like to apologise unreservedly, as I fully understand that my behaviour was unacceptable,” she said. “I have deep regard for why disabled parking and other facilities exist and the decision to park in that was not frivolous, as I was instructed to park there by the food establishment, given that this was a quick pick-up which did not require me waiting long or leaving the car.” She went on to say that she didn’t deny anyone access to the parking spot. “Once again, I apologise to everyone who was offended by my actions,” said Ntando. — Sowetan.