The Herald Craig Twist Fashion Correspondent According to American fashion writer and critic Nikoleta P, another Black Entertainment (BET) Awards ceremony is behind us and it gave us more amazing red carpet looks than we can count on. Several major trends emerged during this ceremony, and these five were leading the way. Celebrities can’t get enough of purple and royal blue dresses these days, and Zendaya and Saweetie gave us pretty similar gowns in this colour at the BET Awards. Dresses with dramatic slits are never going out of style, and Megan Thee Stallion and Taraji P. Henson were among the stars taking this trend to a whole new level at the awards. Many of the stars attending this show didn’t only give us one, but two or more amazing looks at the BET Awards. Lil Nas X, Saweetie, Megan Thee Stallion, and the host Taraji P. Henson were only some of the stars who turned heads with their elaborate wardrobes. The average height for women is 1,6 m, according to the Medicinenet.com, meaning that most women are on the shorter end of the height spectrum. We have always ask women (especially those who come wardrobe edits and consultations) what their goal when it comes to fashion. One lady identified as Hazel Malandu who used to work at The Meikles Hotel many years ago once said, “My height doesn’t affect me in a negative way, it actually gives me a presence everywhere I go. I like wearing heels and to the day, I still wear heels,” she said. There is a psychological hack of women and dressing when it comes to proportion and shape, there are a number of do’s and don’t for you to achieve the desired goal. Most women rely on heels and shoes with a platform to compensate for their height but that is just one part to a tonne of possibilities. First of all, you need to understand that the part that makes women tall or look taller is the legs, however we have to put a great deal of effort into accentuating them so that they look longer than they actually are. So what should you wear then? The goal is to avoid anything that shortens the length of your legs which will make your upper body look bigger. If you are short or petite, we encourage you to wear high waist jeans or slacks and a belt. High waist trousers with a tucked in top shortens your torso and elongates your legs because when people look at you, subconsciously their eyes see you in parts, for example your head, torso, legs then feet. However if your legs look tall then “you are tall” because perception is reality. Dresses also work to your advantage unlike most people’s opinion that they do a disservice to you. A dress in a solid colour creates a vertical line from your neck down and like I said in my previous article that vertical lines make you look taller and horizontal lines make you look contoured or bigger. If you put on a light coloured jacket on top of a dark coloured dress, for example a camel jacket on a black dress, it adds an advantage to your whole appearance as it creates an illusion of vertical lines through the front. Wearing outfits that have a belt above the belly button (not below it) does not only conceal your stomach area while elevating the waist higher but also makes the legs longer, for example jumpsuits look good on short women because having a solid colour top down creates a vertical elevation. Too short, shorts are to be avoided because they expose the exact length of your legs. People can see exactly where legs are starting from and ending but long skirts will look flattering especially with a top in the same colour family or mixing a light coloured tucked in or crop top with a darker bottom. Trousers with a low waistline are also to be avoided because they make your torso look longer and creates an improper body shape, however having tight fitting trousers that gets flared towards the bottom covering the shoes to create just an extra inch or two of length is also ideal. You can opt to wear heels under the flared trousers in a subtle but sophisticated way. Petite women should avoid oversized clothes like hoodies, jackets and dresses but here is the thing, if you have the edge to wearing loose fitting dresses like dress-shirts then they need to be belted to make you look slimmer and taller and jackets should not be anything longer than your waistline. Jackets that look good on petite women are about an inch around the belly button area.