The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter THE speculation surrounding Zimbabwe international, Divine Lunga, was put to rest yesterday after he was unveiled by South Africa champions, Mamelodi Sundowns. It’s a huge leap for the Warriors leftback and justifies all the hype, which has been following him, since he established himself in Supa Diski. Lunga, who has been a long-time target of the Brazilians, will move to the Brazilians, on a reported five-year deal. The 26-year-old is switching bases, as a free agent, after he decided against renewing his contract with Golden Arrows, which expired last month. Sundowns, who have won the last four South Africa Premiership titles in a row, announced on their website that they have completed the signing of Lunga. The defender has been holed up in South Africa, to finalise the deal, and he completed his medical during the week. “Masandawana completed the signing of Zimbabwean international left-back Divine Lunga from Golden Arrows,’’ the club announced. “The 26-year-old defender, who made twenty-six league appearances last season, joins The Brazilians on a long-term contract. “Lunga is a regular for the Warriors National team, he was recently included in the Zimbabwean preliminary squad for the upcoming World Cup qualifiers.” Lunga has been a regular feature for Golden Arrows, since joining them in 2018, and made 84 appearances for the club. He scored once and provided four assists. The leftback caught the eye of Masandawana, in the just-ended season, during which he was in good form. He has also picked up a couple of man-of-the-match awards during the campaign. Lunga will be looking forward to linking up with his former mentor, Steve Komphela, who is the Mamelodi Sundowns’ senior coach. The lanky defender will compete for places with the likes of Lyle Lakay, Aubrey Modiba and Tebogo Langerman on the left side of the team’s channel. Lunga joined Golden Arrows from former Zimbabwe champions, Chicken Inn, back in 2018. He had a fruitful three years, in Durban, in which he also cemented his place as one of the key defenders, for the Zimbabwe Warriors. His highlight, in the Warriors’ jersey, was in 2019, when he grabbed the headlines after he shut out Egypt’s dangerman, Mahomad Salah, at the AFCON finals. Arrows are understood to have turned down offers from Turkey, and the Middle East, in the past. Sundowns have been home to a host of Zimbabwean players, who include Esrom Nyandoro, Peter Ndlovu, Khama Billiat, Method Mwanjali, Nyasha Mushekwi, Kuda Mahachi and Cuthbert Malajila. Legendary Warrior, Peter Ndlovu, is the team manager at Sundowns, which should help Lunga settle easily, at the club. The Brazilians were also reportedly interested in signing winger Mahachi again during the current window. Mahachi is currently on the books of Kaitano Tembo’s SuperSport United. Both Mahachi and Lunga are expected to be part of the Warriors team for the 2022 World Cup qualifiers, against South Africa and Ethiopia, later this year. The team will also take part at the AFCON finals, set for early next year, in Cameroon. “Lamontville Golden Arrows and Mamelodi Sundowns have brokered an agreement for the transfer of Divine Lunga,’’ the Durban side confirmed, on their Twitter account. “We would like to extend our thanks to Divine for his service, in the Green and Gold, and wish him well at Chloorkop.’’ His agent Mike Makaab, the chief executive of Prosport International, hailed Golden Arrows, for the way they handled the deal. Makaab works with local agent, Gibson Mahachi, who engineered Lunga’s move from Chicken Inn to South Africa. “I’d like to thank @goldenarrowsfc1 for the professional manner in which this deal was transacted,’’ said Makaab. “Congrats to our client, Divine Lunga, for this new chapter in his footballing career.’’ The Brazilians are set to return to the CAF Champions League for an eighth consecutive time, next season, and want to strengthen their team. Among the signings unveiled yesterday was Slovakian national team striker, Pavol Šafranko, and the South African duo of Neo Maema and Grant Kekana. “Slovakian national team striker, Pavol Šafranko, joins Masandawana from Romanian Liga I outfit, Sepsi OSK SF,” the club said in a statement. “Šafranko scored nine goals, and registered six assists, in 33 league outings for Sepsi, to help them qualify for the 2021/22 UEFA Europa Conference League. “Attacking midfielder, Neo Maema, joins the Brazilians from Bloemfontein Celtic after his contract ended with Siwelele. “Maema was a consistent performer for Siwelele and made 17 appearances in the domestic league netting three goals in the previous season. “Downs have also secured the services of Grant Kekana from SuperSport United FC. “The versatile 28-year-old defender played 19 matches last season for Matsatsantsa and will be joining up with his former teammate Aubrey Modiba upon his arrival at Chloorkop. “Kekana will be serving the Yellow Nation. The Yellow Nation is proud to welcome our latest additions to the home of the Champions.”