The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo
Senior Arts Writer
Young gospel music power couple Ellard and Sharon Cherayi are focussing on producing music that ministers to both the spiritual and physical aspects of life. Speaking in an interview, vocalist and pastor Ellard Cherayi, known in gospel music circles as Minister Ellard, said their goal was to espouse a wholesome music ministry that does not only draw people to God, but guides them in the journey of life. “For us, music is ministry and because we believe the gospel should be wholesome, we are focussing on producing music that deals with both the spiritual and physical needs of people. “Worship is good, but so is addressing the needs of our followers through inspired music that takes from their everyday challenges.” Cherayi said the world was grappling with a lot of social ills that required meaningful intervention, hence they have taken it upon themselves as a young gospel music couple and minsters of the word to play a part in educating the masses. “We are ministers of the gospel, but we are not divorced from the realities around us,” said Cherayi. “Our communities continue to grapple with social ills like sexual abuse, gender based violence, drug abuse, HIV and AIDS and other pandemics like Covid-19. “All these require concerted efforts from the Government, development agencies, as well as influencers like us.” To achieve their vision, Ellard and Sharon will be working on a song to encourage reverence of God and good behaviour. They have also opened themselves to partnerships with development organisations in advocacy. “We are currently working which we believe will go a long way in encouraging good behaviour and a return to the values that we were raised in,” said Cherayi. “It’s a beautiful song which we believe will encourage people and we are also going to be working with a number of organisations in community development work. We are happy to play our part in raising a responsible generation.” Cherayi’s sentiments were echoed by Sharon, who said the word required active participation by all in the eradication of social ills. “Everyone must play their part in ensuring gender parity and a society that respects the rights of women and children and ensures equal access to basic rights,” she said. “Risky behaviour must also be fought from all angles. ‘‘We are, therefore, deliberately positioning ourselves as voices of reason and champions of hope through inspired and active advocacy. “Everyone must get the message of hope through music that encourages positive change and we are happy to work on a joint music project to achieve this.” The couple has a rich discography dating to their days at Zimpraise. They have toured far and wide with the group and continue reaching out to their fans  online. “We are grateful to God for this gift and the ability to minister to all,” said Cherayi. “Our goal is to make sure everyone hears the gospel and repent from sin. “One can not divorce our music ministry from our duty as pastors, and for that reason we feel challenged to play our part in serving both the sinner and the community at large through public education.” The  couple has also turned professional and recently signed a branding deal with advertising agency and brand management company, Esteem Communications.