The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter AS condolences continue to pour for Dynamos legend Simon Sachiti, the club’s former secretary-general, Brian Kashangura, has described the former DeMbare left-back as a true leader. Sachiti died after a short illness on Saturday morning. Kashangura, who worked with Sachiti in the Dynamos executive, said the death of Sachiti is a big loss to the club. “I worked with him when he was vice-chairman to George Shaya. Eric Mvududu was treasurer and I was the secretary-general. “We had lost all players to Shooting Stars and started to rebuild the team under a tree at Raylton Sports Club until we established an office in Eastlea. We brought in Savanna Tobacco as a sponsor through its Pacific brand. “Pioneer Corporation provided transport for the team and we also had Bakers Inn as a partner. “We managed to bring in players like Edward Sadomba and Justice Majabvi, before them, we had swooped on the signatures of Ronald Sibanda, Dazzy Kapenya and many other notable players. “We worked as a team. “He was a true leader very polite and cheerful. “Sir S**t” that’s what we used to call him,” said Kashangura. Kashangura says Sachiti was instrumental in bringing Webster Shamu on board as a patron. “As secretary-general, I was tasked by the chairman of Dynamos Board Trustees the late Richard Chiminya to approach the Minister of Defence as he was then Hon. Sydney Sekeramayi. “He indicated that he is unable since the army and air force had teams too in the Premier League and there was bound to be a conflict of interest. “I engaged Sachiti and he suggested I approach Shamu and he agreed. I drafted the letter of appointment and drove to the late Chiminya’s workplace for his signature. “I personally delivered the letter of appointment to him but his name was suggested by Simon Sachiti,” he said. Kashangura fondly remembers one incident when the team traveled to Bulawayo and Sachiti requested money for the services of a “sekuru.” “On a lighter note, he once requested “mari yemutombo” when we were going to play against Highlanders. Mvududu and I were against the idea but George Shaya, as the chairman, prevailed over us and he was given the money. “We went to Bulawayo and he said ‘sekuru’ had said the warm-up should not be done at Barbourfields because we will lose the match but somewhere else. “We held our warm-up session at Gilford High and went straight to the stadium. “So I was seated in the VVIP next to Mudhara Sachiti. We scored first through Sadomba and I said to myself it’s really working. Highlanders equalised and then they scored the second goal and we lost 2-1. “On our way back to Harare I was seated at the back with Sachiti in Mvududu’s car and he was with Sunday Chidzambwa. “Just after we have left Bulawayo, I said to Sachiti ‘Ko tadyiwa sei tine mutombo zvikanzi mupwere nyarara’. May his soul rest in eternal peace,” said Kashangura.