The Herald LONDON. — England’s sensational win over Germany at Euro 2020 was watched by more than 20 million people, the BBC announced yesterday, the biggest British television audience to a single programme this year. Gareth Southgate’s Three Lions had been watched by 18.4m viewers, for their Battle of Britain showdown against Scotland, on ITV, in the group stages. But, the knockout 2-0 win over Germany, which has set up a quarter-final battle against Ukraine on Saturday, is now the best watched programme of 2021, with a peak audience of 20,6m viewers. The best-watched programme of the year mark continues to be shattered by the Three Lions with optimism growing of a first major trophy since the 1966 World Cup. ITV took the BBC’s crown with the Scotland match, improving on viewing numbers for England’s first game against Croatia (11.6m). But, the public service broadcaster has now wrestled back their title, with the match against Germany dominating screens across the country, to be the most-viewed programme of 2021 in the United Kingdom so far. The BBC will also host England’s quarter-final tie against Ukraine in Rome on Saturday night as they look to once again smash their viewing record for the year. TV viewing figures are expected to grow as England’s journey in the competition progresses, with Southgate’s side now predicted by many to reach the final, with unfancied Ukraine and either Denmark or Czech Republic, now standing in their way. England’s World Cup semi-final defeat by Croatia in 2018 got a peak audience of 27.5 million people, which was the most viewed programme on TV, since the London 2012 Olympics Opening Ceremony. There was a nervousness inside Wembley from a partisan home crowd, as well as homes and pubs across England, in what was a huge game for the Three Lions. England grew into the game and had their star man at this tournament in Raheem Sterling to thank for the opening goal. Sterling, who scored both of England’s goals in the group stage, escaped his defender, inside the box, to tap in Luke Shaw’s cross from the left with 15 minutes to go. Tension built thereafter when German talisman, Thomas Muller, was put through one-on-one only to put his shot wide. Harry Kane sealed a famous victory, five minutes before the end, as he headed in Jack Grealish’s cross. While it was a good day for the BBC, the same cannot be said for ITV after their presenter was left red-faced when he was duped into believing Liverpool boss, Jurgen Klopp, was soaking up the atmosphere on Wembley Way, during England’s win over Germany, on Tuesday. Fans were left in stitches as a lookalike of Klopp, dressed fully in Liverpool training kit, was spotted outside Wembley, on the shoulders of England fans, amid a boisterous atmosphere. However, ITV reporter, Jonathan Swain, failed to realise that figure was not the Reds boss, and proudly told anchor Lorraine Kelly that he “caught up’’ with Klopp before the game, saying the German was a “great sport’’ and a “tremendous chap.’’ – Mailonline