The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter MIDDLE order batsman, Timycen Maruma, scored a half ton for the Zimbabwe Select XI, in a practice match against Bangladesh, at Takashinga yesterday. The 33-year-old disappointed in the lone Test against Bangladesh. Maruma won a place, in the Test squad, on the back of his 58 runs in a two-day practice game against the tourists. However, he could not reproduce his form, in the Test, when he finished with no runs, in two innings. Zimbabwe lost the match by 220 runs. The Chevrons are looking to turn the tables in the limited overs competitions. The home side also welcomed back all-rounder Sikandar Raza, who returned back on the cricket field for the first time, in four months. Raza batted and scored 24 runs before falling to Mosaddek Hossain. The 34-year-old’s inclusion was good news for the Chevrons, who are preparing to face the Tigers, in a three-match One Day International matches, which get underway in Harare tomorrow. Raza last featured for Zimbabwe in March, in two Tests and three T20Is against Afghanistan, in United Arab Emirates. He got ill soon after the tour and went under the surgeon’s knife, after a suspected tumor was discovered, in his right arm. It turned out he had suffered a bone marrow infection. Raza missed Pakistan’s tour of Zimbabwe and was unavailable for selection for the recent lone Test between Zimbabwe and Bangladesh. Also included in the Zimbabwe XI Select yesterday was Ryan Burl, Richmond Mutumbami, Tendai Chisoro and Chamu Chibhabha. Dion Myers, Tadiwanshe Marumani and Wesley Madhevere also took part in the warm-up game. Zimbabwe’s young talents continued to show potential with Dion Myers scoring 42 runs. Wesley Madhevere had a good bowling spell, taking 2/12, but could not fire with the bat, after he fell for nine runs. The hosts found the going tough, after the Tigers batted first, and finished on 296/6. Bangladesh will conclude their tour with T20I matches set for July 23, 25 and 27. There was sad news for all-rounder Roy Kaia, who was reported for a suspect bowling action, during the one-off Test. The International Cricket Council said in a statement yesterday some irregularities were noted in the 29-year old’s bowling action. Kaia bowled 23 overs in the match. “The match officials’ report, which was handed over to the Zimbabwe team management, cited concerns about the legality of the 29-year-old off-spinner’s bowling action,” said the ICC in a statement. “Video footage of Kaia’s bowling action from the match will now be scrutinised by an Expert Panel, as attendance and assessment, at an ICC accredited testing centre, is not possible due to various restrictions resulting from Covid-19. “Kaia is permitted to continue bowling in international cricket until the conclusions of the Expert Panel’s review are known.” The Highfield-bred cricketer has enjoyed good returns, on the domestic scene, where he has raked up over 100 wickets. Kaia was a stand-out performer with both bat and ball last year when he finished as man-of-the-tournament in the inaugural National Premier League and the traditional first class competition, Logan Cup. Bangladesh will miss experienced wicket-keeper batsman, Mushfiqur Rahim, for the remainder of the tour. The Bangladesh Cricket Board announced yesterday he would be returning home, due to family reasons. “Bangladesh batsman Mushfiqur Rahim will miss the remainder of the tour in Zimbabwe for family reasons. “He will miss Bangladesh’s three ODIs against Zimbabwe at the Harare Sports Club on 16, 18 and 20 July and also the three-match T20 international series that starts at the same venue on 23 July. “The Bangladesh Cricket Board requests that all respect the privacy of Mushfiqur, and his family, at this time,” BCB said in a statement.