The Herald Business Reporter The Government is satisfied with the ongoing cleaning up of the Zimbabwe National Road Administration (ZINARA) which has since the beginning of this year released over $2 billion for road rehabilitation countrywide. The funding released by ZINARA is for road rehabilitation and upgrading under the Emergency Road Rehabilitation Programme (ERRP 2) and for routine road maintenance by local authorities. ZINARA has, over the past few years, been under the spotlight with top executives accused of corruption which cost the parastatal millions of dollars. There were also reports of unqualified personnel occupying key positions at the parastatal with the Auditor General coming up with a damning report of the goings-on there. However, the Government has sought to pivot ZINARA as a key cog in upgrading road infrastructure with a new board being ushered into office to steer the parastatal’s turnaround in line with Vision 2030. Ms Lizwe Bunu currently chairs the ZINARA board on an acting capacity after the removal of Engineer Michael Madanha. Transport and Infrastructural Development Minister Felix Mhona has hailed ZINARA for its role in developing roads in line with Vision 2030. The Minister said a substantive board chair at the parastatal will be appointed soon in a move set to further consolidate the ongoing clean up at the organisation. Minister Mhona said it was pleasing to note that ZINARA has for far disbursed over $2 billion for road rehabilitation countrywide. “To date ZINARA has disbursed over $2 billion for road rehabilitation under ERRP 2 and to local authorities for routine maintenance of roads,” said Minister Mhona. “ZINARA is playing a very pivotal role in the rehabilitation of our roads and we are happy that we now have a robust a s vibrant board that is forging ahead with the turnaround of the parastatal.” According to Minister Mhona top on the agenda of the new board is to clean up Human Resources issues at the parastatal so that it effectively delivers on its mandate in line with Vision 2030. “Very soon a substantive board chairperson will be appointed at ZINARA and at the moment I am happy that there is an serious ongoing programme to clean all the human resources issues and weed out corruption and corrupt tendencies so that the parastatal works in tandem with President Mnangagwa’s vision of making Zimbabwe an upper middle income economy by 2030.” The new dispensation under President Mnangagwa has made huge inroads in road rehabilitation with some of its flagship projects being the ongoing Harare-Beitbridge highway rehabilitation and widening. The highway is being financed from local resources and local companies are working on the project. Other roads such as Chivi-Mhandamabwe road in Masvingo have also been completed by the Second Republic with new projects involving tarring, traveling and traveling going on in various parts of the country. The Government has this year committed billions of dollars to rehabilitate roads damaged by incessant rains in the immediate past rainy season.