The Herald Sports Reporter TRIATHLON Zimbabwe will have to wait a bit longer, before they can hold their duathlon events, as they are yet to get clearance from the Sports Commission. Duathlon consists of running and cycling. They had proposed July 25, for their first event in Mount Pleasant, and another event was expected on August 1, at Borrowdale Brooke. The national association applied for clearance, to hold the events, prior to the suspension of sporting activities, at the beginning of this month. However, with the Level Four lockdown extended, sport remains suspended and it will not be possible, to proceed, with their plans, for now. Triathlon Zimbabwe confirmed on their Facebook page, they have been advised to put the events on hold, for now. “Just a quick update on our proposed duathlon events scheduled to take place on 25th (of) July at Mount Pleasant and 1st (of)  August at Borrowdale Brooke. ‘‘Sadly, we have not received approval as yet but (we) have been in regular communication with SRC following up on our request. “Unfortunately, with the recent extension of the lockdown regulations for another two weeks, we have been advised to put things ‘on hold’ for now. ‘‘We remain hopeful that we will be able to host, at least, one of these duathlon events and will keep you informed on developments. “Please do keep running and cycling, to keep your fitness up, with summer just around the corner, it won’t be long, until we can get back to swimming, at Mount Pleasant.” They are aiming to spread their wings and, for the duathlon events, they are not just targeting their usual members, but all those interested from other sporting disciplines. Triathlon Zimbabwe are one of the national associations, who have managed to have some consistence in their activities, despite the disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. They had a team taking part at the Africa Championships last month and got five medals. They recently held an online media workshop in preparation for the Bonaqua Africa Triathlon Cup to be held in September. The Africa Cup was initially scheduled for February but had to be moved because of the Covid-19 pandemic. This year marks the 14th edition of the event that has grown to be one of the leading competitions on the continent.