The Herald XINHUA. – “I’d like to commend the CPC (Communist Party of China) and the Chinese people for the great achievements over the past century, particularly the first centenary goal,” Cambodia’s Senate President Samdech Say Chhum, said recently. “These accomplishments have been made possible thanks to the wise leadership of the CPC,” Chhum told Xinhua in an exclusive written interview, adding that the eradication of absolute poverty is a key factor for China to reach its goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects. Chhum, also vice president of the ruling Cambodian People’s Party (CPP), said he highly appreciates the CPC and the Chinese government for not only successfully controlling the spread of Covid-19 in the country, but also actively promoting international partnership and cooperation to fight against the pandemic. He also extended his sincere gratitude to China for offering necessary medical supplies and vaccines to Cambodia amid the pandemic, particularly for supporting the Cambodian government’s vaccination campaign. “China has strongly encouraged the development, production and equitable distribution of vaccines and to make the vaccines a global public good,” he said. It is impressive that China is the only major economy in the world, which registered positive economic growth last year during the pandemic, he said. “I believe these remarkable attainments serve as an impetus to the revival of the economy in the region.” Chhum said he is optimistic that China’s new development paradigm of “dual circulation,” a necessary policy to prepare China for a more sustainable and resilient economy, “will continue to accelerate the development pace of China.” With the huge potential of domestic consumption and the spillover effects from the advancement of technology in China, the new development paradigm will also “foster regional and global economic recovery,” he said. Chhum said that only through promoting multilateralism and international cooperation can the world effectively address daunting challenges facing humanity. “In this context, the CPP warmly welcomes and strongly supports the CPC’s proposal for a new type of international relations and building a community with a shared future for mankind, as we firmly believe that it will significantly contribute to global peace, development and prosperity,” he said. Chhum thanked the CPC for its strong support for the CPP in maintaining peace, stability and development over the past years. This year marks the 100th anniversary of the founding of the CPC as well as the 70th anniversary of the founding of the CPP, he noted, adding that both countries will jointly organise meaningful celebration activities in the spirit of solidarity and cooperation.