The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S cricket tour of Ireland has been rescheduled due to the quarantine requirements needed for the visiting team under the United Kingdom Covid-19 rules. The teams were scheduled to play three one-day internationals and five Twenty20s from August 6 to August 24 in Belfast and Bready. The Chevrons are provisionally set to depart on August 1. However, Zimbabwe is on the UK red list for a seriously high level of coronavirus cases. In terms of travel, it means only British and Ireland nationals and British residents are allowed to enter from red list countries. In Ireland, visitors from Zimbabwe must serve a 14-day mandatory hotel quarantine. Cricket Ireland Chief Executive Warren Deutrom yesterday confirmed that the tour will be rescheduled from its original dates. “Following the latest advice for the conditions around which scheduled matches may proceed in Northern Ireland – most notably the stipulations of health authorities around quarantining requirements of the incoming Zimbabwean squad – Cricket Ireland has today confirmed that the Zimbabwe Men’s tour to Ireland will be need to be rescheduled,” said Deutrom in a statement. “We recognise that with Zimbabwe being on the UK Red List, but a Category 2 country in the Republic of Ireland classification, approval for the series was always conditional upon the evolving advice of government. “This is a complicated process involving multiple stakeholders, and we are working closely with Sport Ireland, Sport NI, as well as health and sporting bodies in both jurisdictions to arrive at a new programme that will meet the requirements of both jurisdictions as quickly as possible. “It is now anticipated that the series will be held in August-September 2021, but that some venue changes may be required to accommodate the latest advice received. “These changes may have a number of knock-on effects with the broader playing schedule as well, and the outcome of these changes will be communicated in due course. “We appreciate the understanding and cooperation of Zimbabwe Cricket board and all involved as we work through these latest challenges, and will provide updates as soon as possible.” The visitors were to play three ODIs and five T20Is in Belfast and Northern Ireland. The ODIs forms part of the ICC Cricket World Cup Super League.