The Herald Conrad Mupesa-Business Reporter AT least 120 tonnes of maize have been destroyed by veld fires and dozens of families from three farms in Zvimba District are now homeless as the Environmental Management Agency (EMA) calls on farmers to prioritise fireguards. The veld fires swept through three A2 farms, including Nchefu and Kildonan farms, in Ward 15 and 30 of the same district last week destroying over 100 hectares of land although there were no human fatalities. EMA’s Mashonaland West manager, Mr Rambwayi Mapako confirmed the fires, adding the farm owners have since been charged. “We have recorded three veld fires in Mutorashanga, Rafingora and along Chinhoyi-Murombedzi road. Our officers who were on the ground to ascertain the damage and cause of the fire found out that there were no fireguards around the farms. At least 100 hectares of area have been destroyed while the Agritex is currently working to quantify the tonnage lost. “We want to implore farmers, particularly A2 or commercial farmers, to invest and take preventative fire measures including standard 9-metre fireguards,” he said. Mr Mapako added that EMA has so far issued violation tickets to the affected farm owners for not having fireguards. “Our investigations showed that all the fires started outside these farms before penetrating the farms destroying grains and shelter. If the farmers fail to pay the fine, EMA will take them to court,” said Mapako. Efforts to get comments from acting provincial Agritex officer, Mrs Evelyn Ndoro were futile yesterday but a video circulating on social media of the ravaging fire destroying at least 30 tonnes of shelled maize and 90 of yet to be shelled. The province which records high figures in veld fire cases annually has beefed up its response to veld fires with EMA’s state-of-the-art hay baling equipment to the Zvimba, Hurungwe and other rural district councils for biomass reduction. Personnel from the councils have also gone through training workshops to operate the machine and currently, hay bailing is in progress in Hurungwe district. Zimbabwe Parks and National Wildlife (ZIMPARKS) has also stepped up efforts in the fight against veld fires with the conservation agency going on a massive fireguard construction around game areas in Makonde, Hurungwe and Kariba. Mr Mapako said veld fires were currently at a lower note with the Real-time Satellite Monitoring machine giving the agency and other concerned stakeholders a heads-up on any possible veld fire recurrence.