The Herald Herald Reporter Vice President Dr Constantino Chiwenga has sent his condolences following the death of decorated military commander Major-General (Rtd) Clever Shadreck Chiramba on Sunday. The late military commander, a veteran of the liberation struggle died of Covid-19-related complications. VP Chiwenga said Major-General (Rtd) Chiramba played a key role pre and post-independence. “It was with great shock and pain that I received the news of the untimely death on Sunday morning of Major-General (Rtd) Clever Shadreck Chiramba at Parirenyatwa Hospital after succumbing to Covid-19-related complications,” said VP Chiwenga. “His passing on leaves a deep void that will be difficult to bridge both within the Chiramba family and among those of his comrades he served with during the liberation struggle as well as among former colleagues in the Zimbabwe Defence Forces (ZDF). “I knew him well personally from the days of the liberation struggle and as a senior officer in the Zimbabwe National Army,” said the Vice President. Spurred by the need to end colonial subjugation, Major-General Chiramba (Rtd), among other young black cadres, joined the liberation struggle in June 1974 when he crossed the border into Botswana through Plumtree. He retired from the Zimbabwe National Army in 2004, and in recognition of his illustrious career as a general officer in the Zimbabwe Defence Forces, the general was promoted to the rank of major-general from his last date of service in the organisation. “The late Maj-Gen Chiramba (Rtd)whose nom de guerre was Simangaliso Gumede, was a tried and tested product of the second Chimurenga who rose through the ZANLA ranks to General Staff level. “He had an illustrious military career in the Zimbabwe National Army (ZNA) where he served his country with utmost loyalty, dedication and commitment. “Titles, honours and decoration were bestowed on him in recognition of his invaluable contribution towards promoting and safeguarding the country’s national interest and territorial integrity. “I wish to express my heartfelt condolences to his wife Beatrice, the children, and the entire Chiramba family on this terrible loss of a breadwinner and pillar of strength to lean on. “We offer our support and prayers during this period of grief.”