The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — As Cricket South Africa tackle issues around discrimination‚ racism and transformation‚ fresh attention is being given to the salary disparities that are seemingly apparent within the organisation. Former CSA director Eugenia Kula-Ameyaw was the first witness to take to the stand on the first day of the public hearings of CSA’s Social Justice and Nation Building transformation project established to investigate racial discrimination within the organisation on Monday and made startling revelations. The hearings are chaired by the SJN transformation ombuds advocate Dumisa Ntsebeza‚ who dubbed the proceedings as the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of cricket. Kula-Ameyaw‚ who served as an independent director on the CSA for from May to October last year‚ said white cricketers earn 50% or R77 000 more than coloured players‚ Indians 32% or R51 000 less than whites and Africans 26% or R42 000 less than their white counterparts. During her presentation as part of her submissions Kula-Ameyaw presented a document titled “salary differentials presentation” which she said was shared with the previous CSA board in August last year. Kula-Ameyaw said she worked the monthly average earnings of the players in both the Proteas senior men’s and women’s national teams and used a sample of 34 players who are in the same category and level. She said she used the earnings of eight white male players‚ eight male black Africans‚ three Indians and two coloureds. In the women’s side there were six white players‚ four black Africans‚ two Indians and one coloured who were sampled. “About the salary differentials‚ the average that I worked through‚ the average for white players is R156 216‚ black Africans is R114 191‚ Indians coming in at R105 209 with coloureds last at R79 194‚” Kula-Ameyaw said. The document Kula-Ameyaw presented shows that overall the males earn 70% or R80 319 less than the women on average and that the lowest paid senior national team players are coloureds at R34 508 less than average. The white male players‚ according to Kula-Ameyaw’s presentation‚ earn R42 514 above average and female coloureds are the lowest paid at R6 745 below average. Both white and Indian players are above average at R5 300 and R1 900 respectively‚ according to the document Kula-Ameyaw presented. — Sowetan