The Herald If you dread walking into your dated bathroom and dream of a change, you need to understand the concept first on decorating ideas that are inexpensive and simple to do. The most important project you can do for a bathroom makeover is a lighting upgrade.  A recent survey found that lighting, paired with the right colour, affects mood. Changing out your lighting can be easy and affordable, plus it makes a small bathroom look bigger and more beautiful. Older lighting fixtures and fluorescent lighting cast unattractive shadows and unflattering colour hues on your skin. If changing a fixture is not possible, you can upgrade your light bulbs with new fluorescent bulbs that have the colour warmth of light cast on a bright, sunny day. Once you have upgraded the lighting quality of your bathroom, paint is the next quick and easy update. Pick light colours for large surfaces like the walls and save the darker, richer tones for accents. Check to see how your colour choices look in your new lighting before you paint since the colour temperature can change a colour’s shade.Here is an overview of our quick and easy bathroom decorating ideas: DIY fresh bathroom paint Improve your bathroom wall decor by painting your walls with the perfect colour. It is a quick and easy DIY bathroom decor idea that can immediately transform your bathroom. Light colours will make a small bathroom look bigger.  Dark or vibrant colours add a touch of drama to any size bath. It is no longer necessary to choose gloss paint in a bathroom to combat moisture. Ask the paint shop to mix in an additive to matte paint to keep it from getting mildewed. Don’t stop with painting the walls — purchase an eggshell or semi-gloss paint and paint the cabinets, too! Budget lighting fixtures Replacing outdated lighting fixtures can be a less expensive option for transforming your bathroom decor. There is a wide variety of affordable lighting fixtures available in stores and online. Remember, major electrical projects are best left to professionals. However, with some guidance, switching out lighting fixtures is an easy DIY bathroom project you can do in a day. Don’t be afraid to try trends when changing your powder room lighting. Modern bathroom lighting includes hanging pendants and light bars that diffuse light in a room. It’s smart to choose LED lighting fixtures since they’re the most energy-efficient and don’t add extra heat to your bathroom. Affordable bathroom wall art There’s no need to stare at blank walls in your bathroom.  Treated canvas prints are water-resistant and affordable. Go for oversized proportions to get the best visual impact. For a unique look, have a local printer blow up a favorite photo into customized wall art. Nowadays, custom printers can create canvas prints and even laminate them for water resistance. When brainstorming bathroom decorating ideas for art, think beyond a canvas print.  A wall gallery of favorite objects like starfish or baskets can be a personal and refreshing way to decorate your bathroom walls. – Mymove.com/ Bath tile dupes If your tile is boring, try covering it with removable adhesive tiles like the ones shown above. They’re easy to cut and install and they look like the real thing. The big win is that they can be removed whenever you want without damaging the surface behind it — perfect for updating the bath in an apartment or rented house. Multi-functional and storage in your bath Decluttering and organizing your bathroom will instantly give it a fresh look. If you have a small bathroom, think about how you can improve on existing storage. Adding pull-out drawers (that sort item easier) into a cabinet is an easy weekend upgrade. Standard sizes of pull-out drawers are available at most home improvement stores. Other ways to maximize storage include: Floating wall shelving Wall-mounted baskets Small furniture-style storage cabinet. If you’re pressed for space in your home, consider adding your home washer in the bathroom. With an easy water connection, most washers can fit under the sink. Inexpensive updates to towels and rugs Now you’re in the last leg of the bathroom decorating stages. This part’s like adding a giant bow to a present. Donate or throw away your old, mismatched towels and buy soft, fluffy ones that match your new bathroom decor. Throw in an accent colour or pattern for a modern bathroom design touch. Shop for these key textiles to update your powder room style: Towels. Try fresh textures and shades of colour. Floor mat. Look for comfort and unique materials. Shower curtain. Choose a patterned or a printed shower curtain that coordinates with your towels and mats. This is most likely the cheapest part of bathroom decorations but can make the biggest impact. The bottom line You don’t have to complete a whole bathroom remodel to bring life to your bathroom. A few budget-friendly expenses can instantly add new life to your bathroom. These simple bathroom decor ideas are a sure fire way to help change up your bathroom’s visual plane while being easy on your wallet. Bathroom décor on a budget is now more doable than ever with bargain shopping stores and repurposing elements from other parts of your home. After all money-saving ideas are the perfect way on how to decorate a bathroom.