The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWE international Admiral Muskwe says he will be looking to score goals to help his new side Luton Town achieve their objectives in the English Championship. The 22-year-old completed his move to Luton last week from English Premiership football side, Leicester City, where he was a product of the club’s development. Having spent the last half of the season on loan at Championship side, Wycombe Wanderers, Muskwe believes he has gained enough experience for first team football. “I look to score goals, as all strikers do. “Score goals, create chances, in and around the box, like to dribble, get on the half turn, also get in the pockets. “Just create chances for the team, score goals for the team, and also that aggressive press for the team. Try and win the ball back as high up as possible, so we can continue to create more chances.” Muskwe played 17 games in the Championship and scored three goals for Wycombe. He is excited by the new challenge at Luton Town. The striker told the Luton Town media that the club is a ‘perfect fit’ for him after witnessing first hand just what the Hatters are capable of when playing for Wycombe Wanderers last season. Although Muskwe has only played 22 Football League games, 17 of them have come in the second tier for the Chairboys last season, so he feels more than capable of coping at this level. “I’ve played 17 games in the Champ, so I know what the league’s about and how to get results in the league. “I’m going to bring that to the club and hopefully we can have a good campaign this season.” Despite Town having to pay to bring Muskwe to Kenilworth Road, shelling out an undisclosed fee for the attacker, boss Nathan Jones was happy to do the deal now before his value increased beyond Luton’s reach should he be a hit at another club. He said: “They’re options, real quality and in all honesty, we’ve had a real successful window. “If we didn’t get them now then we wouldn’t have got them because if they go and do well elsewhere then we’re not going to pay three or four million for someone. “So we’ve had to get these in now. “It’s real competition, we’re delighted with him, what he has and how he is, so I’m really pleased to have him in the building.” Muskwe featured in a pre-season friendly at the weekend and he felt Town’s extra quality as the Hatters ran out 3-1 winners over Boreham Wood. The 22-year-old was introduced along with eight other outfield players on the hour mark at Meadow Park, Khanya Leshabela having joined the fray moments earlier, with Town trailing 1-0 to their hosts. However, they went on to grab three second half goals to win the game.