The Herald FORMER Zimbabwe international defender, Thomas Sweswe, has defended Knowledge Musona’s decision to snub a return to the South African Premiership and move to Saudi Arabia. The Smiling Assassin completed a move to Al-Tai FC, who are returning to the Saudi top-flight league next season, after a 13-year absence, from the big boys. According to reports from South Africa, the Warriors captain was wanted by the Big Three of South African football – Kaizer Chiefs, Orlando Pirates and Mamelodi Sundowns. However, with a year still left on his contract with Belgian giants, Anderlecht, Musona ended his 10-year European adventure and headed to Saudi Arabia. Sweswe said the move makes sense as the Zimbabwe international will remain in the same salary bracket, which he had in Belgium and, at the age of 31, he should consider his future. “I think going to Saudi Arabia is a good move in terms of monetary value,” Sweswe, who is also the Footballers Union of Zimbabwe secretary-general, told KickOff.com. “I think he had stayed long enough in Europe and this was another chance for him to pursue other challenges in life, and try football somewhere else because you never know what will happen next. “In Saudi Arabia, it is all about money and, because of his age, it is okay to go there. “He is now 31, so going to Saudi Arabia will make his life easier after football. “Players struggle after football because they don’t have any thing to fall on after their playing days, so going to Saudi Arabia will be good for him in terms of security for his future.” Sweswe arrived at Chiefs at the same time as a then fresh-faced Musona, and Zhaimu Jambo, at the beginning of the 2009/10 campaign. Musona went on to explode on the South African scene before leaving for German Bundesliga club Hoffenheim, where he found Liverpool forward Roberto Firmino, as part of the competition. “Musona remains a top-quality talent. I think his career has progressed in such a way that everyone must appreciate, considering that he has also transformed himself from Zimbabwe to South Africa then to the Germany Bundesilga, and then to Belgium,” said Sweswe. “I think he has progressed very well. “The boy is a top talent and has been the most successful captain of Zimbabwe. As everyone can see, he is still hungry for more success as he still wants to play for Zimbabwe and score the goals and be the best. “I just wish him all the best in achieving what he has always wanted to achieve in life.” Meanwhile, FIFpro, the world organisation which fights for the interests of professional footballers, around the globe, have sent a message of congratulations to FUZ bos, Desmond Maringwa. The former Dynamos midfield star turned 43 on Wednesday. FUZ, the organisation which Maringwa leads, also congratulated their president. “Wishing you every success in championing what you value and creating enduring impact for footballers,’’ FUZ said in a message. Maringwa is part of a crop of emerging football administrators, in the country, with many analysts even tipping him to become ZIFA president, one day. — Sports Reporter/KickOff.com.