The Herald Miriam Nyasha Kwari-Herbalist Hello friends and welcome again to my health my wealth with herbals. It is cold and the flus are abound. We also know that the Covid-19 virus is another problem to deal with. I want therefore to share a few ideas and home remedies for colds and flu. First, I am excited to share with you this information I borrowed from MEDICAL NEWS TODAY, which is a medical platform that does research on different medicines, plants and synthetic, and then publish the authenticity of such products for human use. Recently, they pushed a document on a herbal tea and juice called Graviola or soursop or Guanabueno, found in powder form or vegan capsules and juice. It was exciting because out of personal experience of its effectiveness in the past in my family, which I am grateful for, I am confident to say we all must try it for colds, flu, chest infections, fevers and such. I will share the link for your reference: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/soursop#other-uses And now, cold combinations: these are just ideas that I feel will come in handy for all our families out there. Echinacea is a flower that has been known as an excellent support healer for colds and flu symptoms. However, there are different types of echinacea and it is important to speak to your herbalist to get the correct one. Echinacea will help boost your white blood cells which are important in fighting infections. One can take echinacea tea as often as 3 to 4 times a day. Echinacea also has an affinity for the respiratory system and helps to dry out a runny nose. It is safe for both adults and children. So, fighting colds using combination herbs will show quicker results. Echinacea and golden seal make an excellent combination formula for colds. Add Graviola to the mix and some rosehips, which contain vitamin c, and your immune system is jump started and even kept very apt. The good thing is that these combinations are preventive and are also helpful as complimentary teas in times when we are sick. Therefore, a good synergistic combination herbal tea to fight colds and flu symptoms and pain would be as follows: Graviola, the mother of all complimentary medicinal herbs Echinacea support herb tea for colds and flu Rosehips for Vitamin C Chamomile, a calmative Mint, Peppermint, sage to ease sore throat and open up blocked air passages Lemon and lemon grass Worm wood as the bitters Of course, good old garlic and onion chews are recommended. Begin using any or all of these after exposure to anyone contagious. Also drink plenty of water to help your body flush out the cold, stay warm and do sweat baths. Finally, here is a list of what I think, God on our side, will help too. Principles for home prevention and management of Covid-19 with herbs There is no better time than in this Covid-19 epidemic era to share some food that is also medicinal in order to prevent the infection and in mild cases, manage it from home. This information that i am sharing is meant to compliment medical care that we are given. At no time should it be used to replace professional diagnosis and treatment of the disease. So, let’s jump in remembering that the background for this information is that our kitchen spices are the most important first aid kit for prevention and management of Covid-19 cases at home. Above it all, let us continue praying that god will have mercy on us and the whole world, through his son Jesus Christ. Amen The whole purpose of using the spice rack is to boost one’s immune system. The spices have to be used as tea in order to by-pass digestion, allowing the flavournoids to assimilate fast into the blood stream. That way, the teas or infusions compliment the medical assistance that we receive. When one starts feeling these symptoms, even lightly, please get confirmation through the Rapid and PCR tests that are now available through the Health Departments and doctors. In the meanwhile, some of the symptoms to note include: a) A runny nose, b) General body weakness, c) Aching muscles, d) Fever, e) Dry cough, f) Difficulty in breathing, g) Chest pains, h) Headache, i) Nausea and vomiting, j) Diarrhoea, k) Sore throat, l) Confusion, m) Loss of sense of smell, n) Loss of appetite The list may have more, but these are some of them and they are presented here in no particular order, but randomly. One has to rush and get medical help if any of these symptoms are felt. The spice rack teas to drink- our food and complimentary medicine As I mentioned before, the spice rack in our kitchens will provide some relief at home while we get tested. The same spice rack will work amazingly also for preventative care at home. We are encouraged to make tea and have it after flavouring with lemon. Remember a quarter teaspoon to a teaspoonful will do for one cup if the herbs are dried, and a handful of fresh leaves are recommended when using fresh leaves. Yes, we can still use them for cooking, but for home care and prevention, TEA IS THE BEST. All teas have to be consumed at most, 3 times to 4 times a day. We also should use a standard cup which will give at most 250ml of tea in every cup intake. I encourage everyone to allow the spices to steep or soak in hot water for 10 to 15 minutes before drinking. At the same time, I also encourage everyone to take the tea very warm or hot. It is advisable not to use sugar but rather use pure honey if available.  It is always important to squeeze in some lemon juice for flavour so that it has a bitter taste in the mouth. Fresh herbs are better but even dried ones work. It is possible to have three different teas during the day and at times it is even better to mix 2 or 3 different ones in one cup because the ones in the list have constituencies that combine well. My favourite  list of herbs for home care a) wormwood Wormwood is the number one tea for these respiratory infections, breaks fevers and helps regulate body temperature. Women should  be careful and I recommend once daily for women with Covid-19 as well as those taking it for preventative measures. It does well for coughs and flu. b) Yarrow Yarrow is the appetite queen. Though quite bitter to taste, it stimulates digestion and breaks fevers. It reduces inflammation. Women have to take like they should do for wormwood. c)  mint thyme, oregano, peppermint, spearmint, lemon grass, lemon balm, ginger Cooling aromatic and opening herbs for nasal congestion. They are Immune supporters and they work in breaking fevers while reducing inflammation. They are Digestive support herbs  All the ones mentioned above could well be used as teas and for steaming. Ginger, turmeric and chamomile work well as teas, but watch that there is not too much ginger because it is a blood thinner. d) lemon balm, chamomile, fennel, rosemary, nettle To be taken as tea for they are calmative nervine teas meant to relax the mind so that we are not panicking. They are uplifting for strength. e) guava leaves, eucalyptus, mango leaves, lemon leaves, zumbani These are recommended for tea but mostly for STEAMING. I recommend boiling  mango, eucalyptus, and lemon tree and zumbani leaves and use that for facial and nasal steaming or even whole body steaming. There is need to take care not to burn ourselves though. Some may even use “tsunami” and or add vicks in there. They are an expectorant for help with lung function, immune support and they reduce inflammation of the cells. Zumbani and lemon balm work well together for tea flavoured with lemon and honey f) graviola I cannot say it enough. Please grab a packet because its the most amazing herb for cleansing and toning. Imagine what it can do for your immune system. Ask those who have used it and they will testify. Also make time to Google it and see for yourselves. There are also Graviola suppositories to use for people who cannot eat well too.  One may also use Graviola-Mint nasal packs to decongest the nasals. The choice with Graviola is wide. g) Water Please drink loads of water, Care methods, Steaming Using herbs above Breathing exercises: This is where one breathes in and then exhale or breathe out  long  like we do when we are tired. It squeezes mucus and water out of the lungs so that there is no pain like it is when its settled at the bottom of the lungs. So long exhaling . . . Coarse salt and bicarbonate of soda gurgles for sore throat. Use warm water and then spit it out Masks Do not repeat wearing disposable masks. Close your mouth and nose. Those with Pfizer masks are blessed because their eyes are protected. Yes, we can get the virus through our eyes, especially when in close contact with an infected person. Social distancing 2 Arms length away from people in queues and inside buildings. Food I recommend loads of green veggies, yellow veggies and red veggies in all main meals. There are people who say veggies give them ulcers, for which I say  everyone should try juicing veggies where one crushes them even with a wooden spoon or with a blender and add water, strain and add lemon juice and drink. Its immune boosting and it adds oxygen into the blood. Chewing raw onion in rings or quarters at different time intervals is also recommended Thanks for your patience in reading all this. Let us get on our knees and praise God for giving us these helper herbals in our vicinity. Let’s thank HIM for being able to share this information. When we do that HE will have MERCY on the world and he will spare us. HE helps those who help themselves. I thank you sincerely, Miriam Nyasha Kwari/0773378571/ herbalmiraclesolutions@gmail.com