The Herald LONDON. — The worst football club in the world have thrust themselves into the picture to try and sign the man regarded as the game’s best player, Lionel Messi. The Argentine captain is officially out of work and a few teams — not all of them serious — have already tried to get him to sign for them. The 34-year-old became a free agent on Thursday after his contract with Barcelona expired. That means he’s available for nothing Nada. Gratis. Among his suitors, one would have to imagine that clubs such as Manchester City, Paris St-Germain and possibly an Italian giant like Juventus or Inter Milan, may be interested in trying to lure the six-time Ballon d’Or winner. But, it’s Brazilian side Ibis Sport Club — also known as ‘’the worst football club in the world,’’ — have also put themselves out there, trying to catch the biggest fish of them all. The team from Recife are known for going three years, and 11 months, without a win between 1980 and 1984, earning them an entry into the Guinness World Record books. The terms of their offer are interesting. They translate, roughly, as: Fifteen-year contract period, starting on July 1. Salary based on productivity You can’t score too many goals (cause for contract termination) You can’t be a champion (reason for contract termination) You can’t wear the number 10 shirt (it’s for Ibis cult legend Mauro Shampoo) Swear three times in the mirror that Pele is much better Maradona Messi may well end up signing a contract extension to stay at the Nou Camp. His boyhood club, Newell’s Old Boys, didn’t waste any time. They posted an announcement on Thursday, reading: “Hi Leo, are you there? In Argentina it is just now July 1 … (nothing ventured nothing gained)” Messi played with his hometown club in Rosario from the age of six, before relocating and joining Barcelona at 13. A mural also appeared in Rosaria on Thursday — which may or may not be a coincidence. Over in the Netherlands, second-tier team FC Volendam have also made an interesting pitch. Volendam are a small, coastal town, known for their old harbour and fishing boats. The club mentions, “we have great fish”, among its attractions. They also mention, “we follow the philosophy of Johan Cruyff.’’ Alongside Jordi Cruyff, Volendam manager Wim Jonk co-manages Cruyff football, committed to continuing the legacy of Johan Cruyff. Jonk is a former Dutch international, who was prolific from midfield. And, finally, former Stoke City player Jonathan Walters thinks it’s time to really answer the question: “but can he do it on a cold, rainy night As far as we’re aware, Messi’s agents have not responded to any of these offers — BBC Sport.