The Herald Guo Shaochun Ambassador of the People’s Republic of China to the Republic of Zimbabwe THE CENTURY OF CHANGE From 1921 to 2021, the Chinese people, led by the Communist Party of China (CPC), made splendid achievements and brought great changes to the Chinese nation. From the beginning of the 20th century, China had been a semi-colonial and semi-feudal country for more than half a century. Territory shattered, people suffering, and internal and external crisis interwoven, China was at the arbitrary disposal of western imperialist countries. The then kleptocracy government yielded to coercion and betrayed the nation and its people. Witnessing the country’s hardship and people’s suffering, visionary trailblazers with lofty ideals met the challenge and kept seeking a path to the country’s salvation, though without success. The founding of CPC in 1921 wrote a new chapter in China’s revolution. “Seeking happiness for the Chinese people and rejuvenation for the Chinese nation” has been the aspiration and mission of the CPC from the very beginning. In the past century, the CPC has been striving with generations of the Chinese people unswervingly for a suitable path of China’s revolution, construction and reform with tremendous efforts. Finally, led by the CPC, China won its independence and people’s liberation, and brought people with happiness. China stood up, grew rich, became strong, and realized her first centenary goal. The year 2021 that marks the 100th anniversary of the CPC witnesses China advancing its national rejuvenation following the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics. Today, China has become the world’s second-largest economy, the largest manufacturing country, the largest trading country of goods, and the country with the largest foreign exchange reserve. For years, it has contributed more than 30% to world economic growth and has become a world market consisting of over 400 million middle-income consumers. China is building its capacity to be a major contributor in science and technology. It has kept Covid-19 pandemic under control, won the final battle against poverty, built an overall well-being society, and broken new ground of an all-dimensional, multi-tiered, and wide-ranging opening-up. The Chinese nation is standing firm and confident in the East. Gone are the days when “western invaders could occupy a country by displaying a few cannons on the coastal line.” EXPERIENCE FROM THE PAST The CPC’s debut is a historical inevitability and a choice by the Chinese people. The CPC is determined to carry out the historical mission. Every party has its mission but not each of them could carry out that mission. Born at the juncture when the Chinese nation was in grave danger and deeply rooted in the mass people, the CPC has been sticking to the principle to put people at its center and stand on their side. The CPC remained committed to serving the people and relying on them in all endeavors and won wide support among the people. As shown in many foreign polls, the support rate of the CPC in China has been above 90% for many years, which in turn inspires the CPC to bear in mind its historical mission and keep striving to create historical miracles, never failing people’s expectations. CPC sticks to the path that is suitable for China. The direction one chooses determines his future, while the path one chooses determines his destiny. Sticking to the path suitable to the national condition is the only way for national rejuvenation. Under the leadership of Chairman Mao Zedong, China succeeded in the New Democratic Revolution and built the People’s Republic of China. Socialist transformation was concluded and the Chinese society was built upon the socialist system. Under the leadership of Comrade Deng Xiaoping, Comrade Jiang Zemin and Comrade Hu Jintao, China started the journey of reform and opening-up and socialist modernization, and constantly refined the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics. Since the 18th National Congress of the CPC in 2012, the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core has united and led the whole Party and the people of all ethnic groups to work for historic changes and achievements in the cause of the CPC and the country. As pointed out by President Xi Jinping, the path of socialism with Chinese characters is the right choice China must stick to in order to keep pace with the times and lead the trend. CPC is a party that is equipped with scientific theory. Since its inception, Marxism has been the guiding ideology of the CPC. By combining the basic principles of Marxism with China’s reality, the Party has formed a scientific theoretical system of Mao Zedong Thought, the theoretical system of socialism with Chinese characteristics, and Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era. Armed with the latest theory, the Party led the whole country made breakthroughs in various areas of China’s development. The 19th CPC National Congress established Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era as the guiding ideology that the Party must adhere to, and wrote it into the Constitution of CPC, which kept the Party up with the times. The CPC adheres to the central, unified leadership. Centralized and unified leadership is a leadership model in which the core of the party makes collective decisions for its major undertakings based on thorough study and analysis. The decision will be implemented by Party organizations all over the country. This model has a solid theoretical foundation, profound historical origin, and a sufficient realistic basis. Therefore, China is able to face risks and challenges, overcome difficulties and obstacles, and move forward steadily in the right direction. The CPC is brave in self-revolution. Self-revolution is the most distinctive character and the advantage of CPC. The reason that the Party overcame difficulties and kept its vigor and vitality finds its root in its self-revolution. And with that the Party draws experience from history and learns lessons from mistakes and setbacks and constantly strengthens its ability to purify, improve, reform, and excel itself.  As President Xi Jinping pointed out, instead of never making mistakes, the CPC’s greatness is fully demonstrated when it could honestly look into its problems and has the wisdom to rectify errors. The CPC’s experience is more than what is mentioned above and could not be concluded in such a few lines. The CPC bears its eternal great cause in mind, and the centenary only ushers in the prime of life. Together with the Chinese people, the Party embarks on a new journey toward its second centenary goal of fully building a modern socialist country that is prosperous, strong, democratic, culturally advanced, harmonious, and beautiful.  BUILDING A COMMUNITY WITH A SHARED FUTURE FOR MANKIND The CPC also endeavors for the progress of humankind and the peace and development of the world. CPC led the Chinese people to found Socialistic China and formulate the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence, which heralded the beginning of efforts by developing countries to safeguard their national independence and sovereignty and strengthened world peace, democracy and justice. The CPC puts the concept of a community with a shared future into practice. Over the past 60 years, China has provided assistance to 166 countries and international organizations, dispatched over 600,000 personnel, and announced unconditional  debt relief of heavily indebted countries and the least developed countries for 7 times. China has provided medical assistance to 69 countries in Asia, Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, and Oceania, and has helped more than 120 developing countries implementing the UN Millennium Development Goals. According to the World Bank, the joint construction of the “Belt and Road” is expected to lift 7.6 million people and 32 million people in relevant countries out of extreme poverty and moderate poverty respectively. Looking forward, benefited from China’s growth, there is a bright future of world peace and common development. One can take a leaf from the past 100-year journey of the CPC, that every country should follow the development path that suits its own national conditions and needs. No force is entitled to negate the choice of other countries. At the end of the day, it is up to the people to decide whether their system and path work or not. As President Xi Jinping pointed, China strongly believes that Africa belongs to the African people and that African affairs should be decided by the African people. China has always been supporting Zimbabwe and other African countries in their just cause to gain equality, independence and liberation. On the 100th anniversary of the CPC, China would like to reiterate its unwavering support to Zimbabwe and other African countries to find a path that suits its own national conditions. Guided by China’s diplomatic principle towards Africa that is  sincerity, practical results, affinity, and good faith, China welcomes Zimbabwe and other African countries aboard the express train of China’s development to face challenges ahead and usher in a better future. 