The Herald Victor Maphosa Mashonaland East Bureau The Zimbabwe United Passenger Company (ZUPCO) is establishing sub offices in Marondera as the public transporter steps up efforts to fulfil its mandate of bringing affordable and reliable transport to the public across the country. This is in line with the New Dispensation’s vision of providing affordable and reliable transport to the commuting public. There are two ZUPCO contracted buses operating and servicing the whole of Marondera town, but they are not enough to meet the ballooning demand of the commuting public in the Mashonaland East provincial capital. ZUPCO northern divisional operations manager Mr Tito Chirawu, who is overseeing the establishment of the Marondera offices, said operators wishing to join the company under contract should start to apply now. “ZUPCO is establishing a sub or satellite depot in Marondera to save the community,” he said. “Both local operators and residents will benefit from the scheme. “We are in final stages of putting up infrastructure for fuel and offices. We encourage interested operators to start applying to ZUPCO and get the necessary papers.” Residents who spoke to The Herald recently said they would prefer ZUPCO buses to pirate taxis that have become dominant in the town. Chairman of the Marondera Residents and Ratepayers Association Mr Godwin Munjoma appealed to private operators to register their buses with ZUPCO. “I understand the Government has always proposed that private transport owners should register to become ZUPCO operators, but unfortunately, not many of them are interested,” he said. “There is need for awareness to these transport owners so that they know the benefits of registering as ZUPCO operators, we want as many ZUPCO operators in Marondera as possible.” Mr Munjoma urged ZUPCO to avail more buses to adequately service all the 12 wards in Marondera. Residents are now forced to use the pirate taxis, but besides operating illegally, there is a high chance that Covid-19 can be easily spread because of crowding in the vehicles.