The Herald Eddie Chikamhi
Senior Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWE will need to up their game when they face Bangladesh in the lone Test set to get underway at the Harare Sports Club tomorrow. Records show that the two nations have had some fierce battles, stretching about 20 years, in the red ball game. The rivalry was born in 2001, when the Bangladesh side toured overseas, for the first time. They got a baptism of fire when they lost the Test series 2-0. Zimbabwe were the second country to play Bangladesh, after they had secured their Test status, the previous year. Since then, the teams have played nine Test series, between themselves, with Zimbabwe winning four while Bangladesh claimed three. Two of the series ended in 1-1 draws. A total of 19 Test games have been played in between the series and each side has claimed seven victories. The Chevrons have 13 Test wins, in 114 outings, and seven of them came against Bangladesh. Bangladesh have played 123 Tests, in 20 years, and won 14, seven coming against the Chevrons. The Tigers have won six of the last eight matches, since they last toured Zimbabwe, in 2013. They trounced Zimbabwe by an innings and 106 runs in February 2020. Abdur Razzak, who is touring as the team’s selector, said Zimbabwe were tough opponents, on home soil, mainly because of the conditions. “In this condition they will do quite well in some cases. They come back quickly here,’’ he told the Bangladeshi media. “Of course, the team is much better now than it was before. So, players have to play in any condition, have to adapt. “The more they can adapt, the better they are.” Bangladesh played a two-day warm-up match against Zimbabwe and they batted well, declaring on 313/2 after facing 90 overs, on the first day. Shakib Al Hasan retired following a brisk 74 from 56 deliveries. Saif Hassan (65*), Najmul Hossain Shanto (52) and Litan Das (37) also got the feel of the game before retiring. Mahmudullah Riyad scored 40 runs before the tourists declared. Opener Tamim Iqbal, who recently recovered from injury, also made a cameo appearance, in the second innings. Off spinner Mehidy Hasan and all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan took three wickets apiece . “I like the weather in Zimbabwe. The wicket stays a little tough, for spinners,’’ said Razzak. “The rest is beautiful for cricket. “Speaking of opportunities, some compromises have to be made. Everything is fine. “This time, coming as an official seems a little different. Every time I came here before, I practiced.’’ Zimbabwe Test squad: Regis Chakabva, Tendai Chatara, Tendai Chisoro, Tanaka Chivanga, Craig Ervine, Joylord Gumbie, Luke Jongwe, Roy Kaia, Takudzwanashe Kaitano, Kevin Kasuza, Timycen Maruma, Wellington Masakadza, Blessing Muzarabani, Dion Myers, Richard Ngarava, Victor Nyauchi, Milton Shumba, Brendan Taylor, Donald Tiripano, Sean Williams (captain). Bangladesh Test squad Mominul Haque (C), Tamim Iqbal, Shadman Islam, Saif Hasan, Nazmul Hossain Shanto, Mushfiqur Rahim, Shakib al Hasan, Liton Das, Mahmudullah, Yasir Ali, Nurul Hasan, Mehedi Hasan Miraz, Taijul Islam, Nayeem Hasan, Abu Jayed, Taskin Ahmed, Ebadat Hossain, Shariful Islam