The Herald Robson Sharuko-Senior Sports Editor BRENDAN RODGERS seemingly has an enduring love affair with Zimbabweans footballers. And, as he returns to Wembley today, for the first time in six years, he is buzzing about his latest gem from the land of the Warriors. The 48-year-old Northern Irishman is set to lead Leicester City to an FA Cup final showdown against Chelsea, at the home of English football, this evening. On Tuesday, Rodgers played his latest Zimbabwean card, when he threw 18-year-old midfielder, Tawanda Maswanhise, into the Foxes’ first team squad, for the English Premiership showdown against Manchester United, at Old Trafford. The teenage star, who was born in England, is the son of former Zimbabwean sprinter, Jeffrey Maswanhise, who represented the country at the All-Africa and Commonwealth Games. He is eligible to play for England’s Three Lions, when he finally makes the grade into international football, although his father has said he would be open for the midfielder to play for the Warriors. Although Tawanda spent the entire game on the bench, it was a great night for teenage footballers, drawn from around the world. His teammate, Luke Thomas, became the youngest player to score his first Premiership goal, in a match against Manchester United, at Old Trafford, when he gave the Foxes the lead with a beautiful first-half strike. His goal came at the age of 19 years and 335 days. Mason Greenwood, the 19-year-old Manchester United forward, struck the equaliser, which was his sixth goal, in his last six Premiership appearances, and his eighth goal, in his last 11 appearances, for the Red Devils. His goal came from an assist provided by 18-year-old Ivorian, Amad and, somehow, Greenwood was the oldest, of the United front three, which also featured 19-year-old Anthony Elanga. Born in Malmo, Sweden, he is the son of former Cameroonian international, Joseph Elanga, and he became the 14th Manchester United academy player, to be handed a first-team debut, by Ole Gunnar Solskjaer. But, from a Zimbabwean perspective, what mattered was the introduction of Maswanhise, the highly-rated teenage midfielder, into the Leicester City first team, by Rodgers. Suddenly, there is a possibility the midfielder could be in the Foxes side for the Wembley showdown, against Chelsea, in London this evening. TAWANDA MASWANHISE, LEICESTER CITY “He’s a young player I like,” Rodgers told the Leicester Mercury newspaper. “I’ve seen him playing for the Under-18s. He’s quick, he’s direct. “He’s got a lot of strengths and he’s got a lot of potential, but a lot of work to do. “Bringing in young players, like we’ve done with Luke (Thomas) before, it gives them the experience. “To feel the preparation, to sit on the bench, to see the quality of the players, it gives him a flavour of the level and preparation he needs to be here. That was the idea.”  KUNDAI BENYU, JUNE 2017, CELTIC In June 2017, Rodgers was the manager at Scottish giants when he handed Zimbabwean midfielder, Kundai Benyu, a four-year contract. Although he was now playing in the English National League, the Northern Irishman still believed in Benyu’s qualities and brought him over to Glasgow. Benyu subsequently scored, on his first appearance for the Celtic development squad, in a pre-season friendly, and then made his competitive debut, in a Champions League qualifier, against Linfield. Rodgers plan was to send Benyu on loan, in his first season at Celtic but, after an impressive performance, in a friendly international against Lyon, the Northern Irishman had a change of heart. “He’s been very good, he has surprised me to be honest,’’ Rodgers told the Scottish Daily Record newspaper, in July, 2017. ‘’We knew he was a good player. “You see what we’re trying to build here in terms of players being technically gifted. “But, they have to have good mobility and good physicality. And he has that. He’s played with a nice little edge, he’s competitive. And he’s got a confidence. “We will see how he develops. Initially the plan was to have him in, thinking he can get an idea of how we work and then go on loan.’’ However, things did not work out and Benyu’s star faded badly, despite the backing of his manager. He was loaned to Oldham, in January 2018, went on another loan to Helsingborgs before signing for lower league English side Wealdstone in October last year. He only lasted four months there, making only 12 appearances, before the contract was terminated, by mutual consent, and he went to Iceland where he now plays for Vestri. ADMIRAL MUSKWE, LEICESTER CITY The Warriors striker was sent on another loan spell by Rodgers, as part of his development strategy, arriving at English Championship side, Wycombe Wanderers, in January this year. Despite his best efforts, Wycombe were relegated, paying the price for a poor first half of the season. Recently, Rodgers announced Muskwe, and a number of his teammates on a similar programme, will return to Leicester for further assessments. “Of course we need to test one or two, but there’s going to be a few of the players that I would like to bring back here to assess and look at over these last few weeks,’’ the manager told The Leicester Mercury. “But, I’m also mindful they’ve been playing long seasons, 46 games, and that will have been a real challenge for them. A lot of the boys will be finished, after the weekend, and then there will be one or two we’ll get back in to have a look at as well.” The newspaper said “Muskwe has also fared reasonably well at Wycombe, in spite of their battle with relegation, while Matty James helped Coventry finish well clear of the drop and could now get a permanent deal with the Sky Blues as his City contract runs out.’’ Muskwe, who has in the past trained with the Foxes first team, has already featured for the Warriors and scored the Goal of the Season for Wycombe Wanderers.  REECE EVANS, LEICESTER CITY Reece Evans is the other promising teenager, with Zimbabwean links, in the Foxes pipeline. The 15-year-old Evans, whose parents are Zimbabweans, Norman Evans and Jolene Brandt, is one of the most promising talents in the Leicester development system. “Leicester City are protecting this gem as many top Premier League teams, Spanish La Liga and Italian Serie-A seem to be peeping to monitor his progress,’’ said England-based former Zimbabwean footballer. Charlie White. “Reece sometimes plays for the Under-16 and Under-17s as he seems to perform better as he is so dominating in his age-group. “Reece knows when to peel off a defender and position himself in a scoring area. He can take on the whole defence if he so wishes, but has to play to instructions from the Leicester City bench. ‘’Norman, a proud Zimbabwean of the Matabeleland Khumalo clan, would love to see his son play for Zimbabwe.’’