The Herald A YEAR might have passed, since Norman Mapeza left Chippa United but the madness, at the world’s most turbulent football club, continues to unfold. The Zimbabwean gaffer packed his bags, just a few months into his stint, joining a number of coaches who have left the club. This week, Chippa United completed a world-record 30th coaching change, in the past eight years, when Serbian coach, Vladislav Heric, was sacked. On Thursday, Heric broke his silence over his sudden departure. Heric was fired after being in charge of the team for only four games, recording two wins including a famous 1-0 victory over Kaizer Chiefs. He is set to be replaced by Lehlohonolo Seema, at the Chilli Boys, depending on negotiations between the two parties. Despite his departure, the former Cape Town Spurs coach still believes the club will survive relegation. “There are no hard feelings at all, I expected this to happen especially when the results were not forthcoming according to their opinion,” Heric told KickOff.com. “I spoke to the chairman (Siviwe Mpengesi) this morning, there are no hard feelings at all. I believe the club will survive relegation. “They only need four points and they can do that.” Heric is set to leave for Serbia soon to pay respect to his late father before coming back to South Africa to look for a new job. Heric’s departure from Chippa comes as a shock considering that, out of the five league games he was in charge, they won two, drew two and lost one. He won the club eight points from a possible 15, which is a third of the 25 they have now sitting second from bottom. He lost in the Nedbank Cup final against Tshakhuma Tsha Madzinhandila. The Serbian won games against Kaizer Chiefs and Stellenbosch then drew with Golden Arrows and Black Leopards. The only league defeat that Chippa suffered under Heric was on Tuesday, against Bloemfontein Celtic. Heric was appointed as technical advisor last month but then took charge of the dressing room straight after Luc Eymael’s appointment was rescinded. Chippa started the season with Lehlohonolo Seema then attempted to bring in Eymael before appointing Dan Malesela and then again appointing Eymael before backtracking a day later, after which Siyabulela Gwambi briefly took charge. — Sports Reporter/KickOff.com