The Herald The South African Film and Television Awards (Saftas) are back on the small screen and will air in an unprecedented simulcast on SABC 3 and Mzansi Magic. The unorthodox broadcast deal is a first in the Saftas’s 15-year history and it comes after last year’s disastrous virtual show that ran on YouTube and other social media platforms due to the pandemic. Organisers issued an apology to nominees, winners, stakeholders and general public last year over “technical difficulties” that overshadowed the awards. Saftas has enlisted prolific producer Anneke de Ridder to deliver a spectacular hybrid showcase within Covid-19 regulations. De Ridder did the same for the Idols SA finale and Miss SA last year. “The awards show will be a hybrid show with live and pre-recorded elements. The containment of the spread of Covid-19 remains a priority and the team will be trying to keep production at a minimum but still give audiences a show to remember,” De Ridder said. “We have found solutions to incorporate nominees and presenters virtually, all a part of our plan for a hybrid show — a first for the Saftas. Another first for the Saftas is the simulcast airing on SABC and Mzansi Magic. We have a very exciting and different approach to the red carpet. “Again, because the show will be hybrid, we will get to enjoy some “at home” red carpet moments as part of the show. We will be encouraging viewers at home to join in on the fun too. Who knows, they too may appear on this year’s virtual red carpet.” The simulcast will air on May 22 at 6.30pm. “With the recent relaunch of S3, we are very happy and thrilled to be partnering with the Saftas,” said Pat Van Heerden, head of S3 bouquet. “This partnership with the NFVF is important to us because we have a shared mandate in the growth and development of the film and television industry.” Streaming service Netflix’s three-part comedy “How to Ruin Christmas: The Wedding” leads the nomination pack this year with 13 nods, including for stars Busiswe Lurayi, Desmond Dube, Motlatsi Mafatshe and Clementine Mosimane. Pay broadcaster MultiChoice’s “The River” and “The Legacy” are tied second with 12 nominations each. “Congratulations to all the Safta nominees, whom we are excited to celebrate on Mzansi Magic on May 22 . . . Let us remain relentless in taking African stories to the world,” said Yolisa Phahle, MultiChoice group chief executive officer for general entertainment and connected video. — Sowetan