The Herald Senior Arts Reporter
Prominent Zimbabwean professional speaker and thought leader Walter Chimene is contesting for the post of Chief Advisor of the Africa Entrepreneurship Growth Initiative (AEGI). The AEGI is a mastermind group anchor, Pan African network of multi-stakeholder investors that have keen interests in sustainable development, entrepreneurship growth and grassroots empowerment. Its mandate is to create advisory collaborative innovation funding ecosystems that work with Heads of States, high net worth philanthropists, venture capitalists, investment researchers and celebrity brand ambassadors. If selected for the post, Walter’s key roles will include advising Heads of States, adjudication of projects that require funding and coordination of the initiative’s ambitious US$ 1 billion fundraising program. To secure the post, Walter will have to battle to contest with five other nominees from the continent. In a wide-ranging interview yesterday with The Herald Entertainment, he said he was confident of landing the post. “I’m inspired by the paradigm of influence because we must be deliberate in our intentions to shape our desired future. We must frame the elements that will bring us prosperity. We must stay ahead of the curve. I’m humbled by the opportunity to serve and transform the continent. It’s a culmination of many years of dedication, discipline, and focus. I’m happy that my efforts are beginning to bear fruit, no matter what the outcome is.” he said. “I was nominated because of my consistency over many years, that I am truly futuristic, cutting edge, brand wired, game-changing, out of the box thinker with a brilliant perspective for the potential of Africa”. Walter said his hard work and discipline have earned him recognition for the nomination. “I’m taking the nomination with great humility and discipline. It has taken me many years to build my brand, get accredited in key networks and gain the trust of prominent people who are movers and shakers on the Continent. It has taken focus, consistency and discipline. I’m glad things are manifesting in grace,” he said. In his life, he says he is inspired by the telecommunications mogul Strive Masiwa. “My role model is Strive Masiwa. I’m inspired by how he has grown his brand from just being local to a regional and now global state of influence. He is respected in the global ecosystems of capital and he commands deep respect in the international power broker networks,” he said. If he wins the post, Walter said he will use the opportunity to influence that Zimbabwean brands become part of the conversation and make young entrepreneurs and artist recognisable. “I’m passionate about young Zimbabwean entrepreneurs, especially in the creative industry. The long and short of it is that our gifted celebrities for example in fashion, film and music are flat broke. Other African countries have done well because they have access to dedicated, deliberate funding that’s why Nigerians and South Africans have done well on a global stage . The good thing is that I have already built algorithms that can allow Zimbabweans access to the key funding platforms,” The multi award-winning professional speaker said he was recommended to the AEGI by a prominent African billionaire and through a profile check by our head hunter. Chimene was born in 1985 and attended David Livingstone Junior and Bernard Mizeki College.
On completion of high school, he pursued global mentorship programs, International courses in entrepreneurship, innovation and investment intelligence. He is the pioneer of Gorindemabwe Frontier, which popularised the 100 most influential young Zimbabweans Under 40 list.
Walter is also the brains behind Eloquent Solutions which framed the professional speaking terrain in Zimbabwe, Wolf Wealth Africa Network which contributed to the retooling of the venture capital space in Africa, Innovation Roundtable Zimbabwe which is a think tank that has contributed to the re-engagement drive of Zimbabwe He also sits on the boards Readership Zimbabwe, which pushes for trend literacy in rural communities, Entrepreneurship Fund ForumX which mentors young African entrepreneurs to prepare for investment ecosystems and Brand Revolution Council, which is a think tank pushing the re-engagement of Brand Zimbabwe into the family of Nations.