The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S wicket-keeper batsman Brendan Taylor has received applause from around the globe after the International Cricket Council recognised him for his unorthodox shot over the keeper which has bewildered many opponents over the years. The ICC posted the video which question marks whether it was a late cut? A scoop or a ramp shot? The responses were varied but Taylor himself was humble in his response. But this is a shot that he has played several times and he does it so well every time. The result has been a demonstration of pure class, thought and good timing. “Doesn’t always go to plan but a good feeling when it does. All because I can’t play the pull shot to save my life. I appreciate the clip ICC,” said Taylor. The top order batsman has played this shot on numerous occasions including at the 2015 World Cup when he scored a hundred (138) against India. His fans dotted across the globe descended on the social media to express their admiration for the 35-year-old’s skill. “Epic stuff from the Zimbabwe legend,” tweeted Tawanda Chamisa. “Finally ICC shows some rare gems that we didn’t recognised or known till here,” said Santhosh Kumar Another Tweeter user by the name Nandy Roue has been following Taylor from abroad and has been charmed by his talent. “Thanks ICC for finally recognise this shot from this great man. I’m a huge fan of him since 2006. I used to share his game skills to my friends but most of them not know him because of less popularity. Now all will come to know that he’s a king of Uppercut,” said Roue. “This is what happens when you let talent develop,” added Junaid Ahmed. “Taylor debuted in 2004, now he’s cemented his place as an all-time Zimbabwean great. Imagine where the likes of (Solomon) Mire, (Graeme) Cremer and others would’ve been if they were allowed similar development. There’s a lesson to learn here for ZC board.” Dilip Poco said the shot reminded him of the mastery of the reverse sweep by former Zimbabwe skipper, Andy Flower. “Some Zimbabwe players have amazing skills for some shots, Flower master of reverse sweep, this guy has upper/under cut,” said Poco. Another fan Osman Butt said it was unfortunate players who are not part of the traditional big countries do not always get the recognition despite the immense talent. “Doesn’t get the recognition he deserves because he’s playing for Zimbabwe. He’s a world class batsman. If he played for England or some other big nation he’d be talked about a lot more,” stated Osman Butt. “He would have been a bonafide legend of the game if he had played for any other test playing nation… Pure class and skills,” added Puneet Sethi.