The Herald Talent Bope Arts Reporter Star FM radio personality Nonhlanhla Thuthani, popularly known Miss V Candy, will today host a virtual awareness campaign on mental health, which will see others such as Samantha Musa (Misred) and musicians Tytan and Rozalla participating. The bubbly presenter said the selected presenters will share their stories as they tackle mental health problems. Miss V Candy said the power behind the prosperity of Africa lies in good mental health. “For this year, we have lined up our local celebrities to open up about mental health, the daily struggles and how they have managed to overcome,” she said. “It is being done virtually, but on the 21st it’s just personalities raising awareness and having a discourse that it’s normal not to feel okay, then on the 22nd that’s when “I meditate Africa” takes place virtually again.” The event campaigns will be spearheaded by The Art of Living Foundation, which has played host to an annual Africa-wide campaign known as iMeditateAfrica (IMA), in celebration of Africa Day. The show will coincide with the month of mental health which is celebrated annually in May.  This is when Africa celebrates mental health through awareness to curb the problem in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic which has wreaked havoc globally. “Sowing seeds of resilience and hope is the most appropriate action to take right now as the economic and social disruption caused by the pandemic continues to adversely affect so many lives,” said Miss V Candy. “This year’s campaign is aptly titled “I meditate Africa”, a day that’s observed annually on the 22nd of May in connection with May being Africa month as well as mental health awareness month. “Meditation helps to achieve inner peace, happiness and strength, it’s not religion based as some misconceptions may assume, and even Christians practice meditation.” Miss V Candy said the event aimed to raise awareness about mental health in the country and to play a pivotal role in getting the country’s key stakeholders such as the Government, community and media to strengthen the fight against mental health. “Global mental health involves the study, research, and practice of improving mental health for all people worldwide,” she said. “It takes into consideration disparities in mental health treatment and care across cultures and countries, therefore, meditation was the key. “May is mental health awareness month and also Africa month and building up to Africa Day there is “I meditate Africa”, a day that’s observed annually. A lot of people are battling with mental health and meditation really helps for people to break that mental bondage.” Miss V Candy said this year’s campaigns will be running under the theme, “A Strong Mind — Building a Resilient Africa”. “Meditation as a practice has increased in popularity in the past few years, due to its scientifically proven efficacy in managing stress and improving general well-being,” she said. “Meditation also has the power of ‘collective consciousness which when intentionally harnessed can create tremendous healing.”