The Herald Youths of nowadays have said that there are a lot of societal problems which are affecting them. This week we took it to the streets to hear from them on how best some of the problems can be solved. Who is to blame for such? Here is what they have to say…  Awakhiwe Malunga, 20 Europe business school, Bsc International Relations Mental health is one problem youths of today are facing in my community. It is not usually a topic up for discussion but it is affecting the youth at an alarming rate and it should be given much attention. Mental health is as important as any other health dimension, unfortunately it comes with stigmatisation therefore getting help becomes difficult. This problem can be solved by having support from family and peers, educating people to support the resilience and recovery of those suffering from mental health disorders and identifying issues to reduce harm. More rehabilitation centres, free support groups and access to medication can really go a long way in helping the youth facing mental health issues. Another problem we face as a community is that most youths are idle and unemployed. It would be of much help if self help projects of the youth are supported by our Government and NGOs. Volunteering projects can also help keep youths out of mischief, as it is famously said that, “An idle mind is the devil’s playground”. Education on sexual reproductive health is essential and critical for young people in our communities. This is another facility that should be provided in all our communities. This will bring our country closer to achieving two reproductive health related Millennium Development Goals.  George Tanatswa Marufu, 23 years old University of Zimbabwe, Honors in Accounting Negative mentality and loss of hope is now more common amongst the youth. There is an increased rate of self doubt and depression. This being more normalized by the greetings we hear everyday “pakaipa,  low low, ma1 “. With all the other factors that can be considered it all comes back to mental health. If there is more of mental health awareness programs and constant positive talk as youths we can realize that you should not always wait for opportunities but you can create some on your own. With more opportunities there will be less idle time hence less mischief from the youth. Talent in the youths is not being recognized fully. Programs can be created by the government and corporates that recognises talent and offer conducive platforms for the youth that are enough to showcase their talents. Making it in Zimbabwe  shouldn’t be centered around education only. Lindah Nyasha Mavangira, 20 years old Midlands State University, Insurance and Risk Management I think the main problem we are facing is drug abuse. Youth between the ages on 18-25 in our community constitute an important cluster because they represent the next generation of professionals, bread winners, parents and leaders. This therefore means that as a local community, we must be very deliberate and prioritize the needs of the young person so that they are better prepared to take up the responsibilities before them. Today, because of many challenges with parenting such as absentee parents, single parenthood, neglectful parents among many other challenges, many parents have dropped the ball and abandoned their responsibility of raising their children with the right values. This has resulted in a youth population that is not guided with the right value system. This has in turn exposed young people to higher risks of dropping out of school, risky sexual behaviours, drug, alcohol and substance abuse among many other risks. Youth need proper guidance in schools and at their places of employment by experienced and compassionate mentors who will ensure that they move along the right path. Regular activities organized by government and private entities to motivate the youth to be major contributors to society will help to mitigate and cover the void that is left by parents who are unavailable to nurture the youths for whatever reason. Mike Farai Maravanyika, 21 years old Accounting, Bindura University of Science Education It is undeniable fact the youth of nowadays have fallen victim to a number of social ills. These social ills include prostitution, child headed families, unemployment, child marriages, unwanted pregnancies, just to mention but a few. Out of all these social ills one which has caused a major destruction to the array of youths living in Bindura as a community among those youth are also local university students who are into drug abuse through the use crystal meth. Crystal meth has been undeniably one of the most spoken and destructive drug on the street right now. This drug is usually known in the streets as Gukamakafela, Mutoriro or Dombo. I feel to curb this pandemic of crystal meth in Bindura the community through the municipality and institutions of higher learning that are within Bindura should come together and bring in the aspect of recreation and entertainment  so as to occupy apart from other social ills Tinomudaishe Anopa Matinanga, 20 years Bachelor of Law Substantive (BLS), University of Zimbabwe As youths of today one of the most common problem that we face is drug and alcohol abuse. This has not only affected our culture, but it as also affected the health of most youths. Death rates continue to rise and the average age of the death toll is ranging from 20 to 25 years due to drug abuse. The best way to help youths from drug overuse is by facilitating different counsellors and organisations that help them and teach them the danger of drug over use. Also creating different employment opportunities for youths will give them a brighter view towards life and the future they have as young people. Evelyn Machekano, 19 Culture and Heritage Studies, College Bindura University of Science Education As a girl child who has seen other female counterparts within my circle, I have seen desperation were most girls who in their youthful ages have resorted to throwing themselves to their community fathers or university rich cousins for money and luxurious life on campus in exchange for sex. I believe youth should be economically empowered and be able to sustain each other. 