The Herald Elliot Ziwira Senior Reporter At least 96 female informal traders are set to benefit from a US$116 000 safe market facility built by the United Nations Women in partnership with Katswe Sistahood at Overspill Shopping Centre in Epworth. The facility which was funded by the European Union through the Spotlight Initiative Programme under a safe-cities, safe-public spaces and safe-markets concept is expected to be officially opened by Women Affairs, Community, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Minister Dr Sithembiso Nyoni mid next month. The ministry is a partner to the project, with the Epworth Local Board being the other, and tasked to run the facility. Plans are afoot for the implementation of similar initiatives in Chipinge and Umzingwane districts. The concept is aimed at bringing transformative change towards sexual gender-based violence in public spaces which usually exposes women. The markets are envisaged to not only be safe places for women but to also empower them, particularly in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The project is designed to respond to the impact of the global contagion which has eroded incomes, especially for women, owing to lockdown measures leading to the closure of informal markets. Speaking during a tour of the structure on Tuesday, Katswe Sistahood programmes manager Debra Mwase said although Covid-19 hit the headlines when the project was already in progress, the negative perspective of markets at the outbreak of the coronavirus in Wuhan, China needed to be debunked by creating violence-free spaces for women to sustain their families. “The objective of this initiative was to come up with a safe market for women that would enable them to participate fully in local economies. “So, we needed a market that would make women feel safe at all times. Construction began on that note,” Ms Mwase said. “Then came Covid-19. As you know, the virus emerged from a market in Wuhan, China. There were a lot of negative perceptions about markets at the beginning of Covid-19. “So, we needed to change that perception of markets as centres for disease, but entry points to the promotion of public health.” The infrastructure has also taken into consideration women’s unique needs as well as their children’s. As such, there are spacious disability-friendly and gender-responsive ablution facilities for women and children, with diaper changing rooms to accommodate those with babies. A play centre and a separate room are also additional facilities meant to accommodate and safeguard children at the marketplace. One of the beneficiaries, Gracious Mugariwa (33), a mother of one, said the facility has gone a long way in ascertaining sustainable livelihoods for women in a safe and clean environment as they are already operating from a temporary structure built for them. “Epworth has been transformed in a big way. We are operating from a clean and safe environment with clean water, toilets and electricity,” she said. “We are also benefiting a lot from the lessons we are getting on business, particularly on how to save and operate profitably. ” I am now able to pay school fees for my child, pay rentals and buy whatever I feel like eating.”