The Herald Nyasha Chitavati-Applied Biosciences and Biotechnology — MSU Nowadays, it is so difficult to understand about who we are as youth. We are living different types of lifestyle in relation with what is around us, in relation with the pressure that is forced and posed on us by our environment and community. Somehow this has created an identity crisis within us. Being a youth comes with a lots of responsibilities and if we are not paying enough attention we might end up being victims of our own deeds. During this stage, there’s a lot experimentation but a low degree dedication. At this point as youth we are in the midst of an identity crisis that has prompted us to explore and experiment with various values, cultures,beliefs ,lifestyles and even goals. But if this is all done without good or proper measures then as we know scientifically a wrong experiment can lead to extreme harmful explosions. Youth stage is referred to as a stage of self development, self knowing and self realization. This is the stage regarded as the stage were economically fit beings are found. But if we forget about who we want to be and run after temporary goals then we will end up falling into our own rabbit trails. During this stage you need to write down all that you want to accomplish whilst you are still young. The pressure of the world will always be there and remember time will always be there but you, you might not be there and you are finite. As youth,  nowadays we are so scared of doing what we want because of the sayings, “ What will people say, will it work, am l going to look good after that, what if l mess up, what if after this l lose all of my followers.” We are no longer living our lives directed by our own opinions but other people’s opinions. Three quarters of the youth and even the grown-ups nowadays are living under that spell. Those words have imprisoned our minds. Their chains have bound us so hard that it is becoming so difficult to break them because we have made them our new normal. You now see a lot of imitation taking place. People are losing their lives and respect because of social media competition and unnecessary trends. Your goal now will be geared towards followers instead of your bank account and your values and your worth for your proper survival here on earth. Yes , l know the pressure sometimes is too hard to handle but you have to try because if you don’t you will spend the rest of your life running after things that will never benefit you in life. Find capital, start a business step by step , you will get there one day. don’t run after temporary social media life because the people you will be competing with ; you don’t know their source of income or where they get all those fancy things. Lives are different so as lifestyles so be you, do you, for you. Note that l am saying don’t look good on social media but l am saying don’t let it steal your identity, slow your growth and divert your purpose in life. Don’t allow social media to be your daily bread. See it as a means not a needy. Don’t let its pressure get in your head. Never accommodate it because honestly speaking it will be so hard to remove that parasite in your mind. Remember lifestyles are different. Don’t copy what others are doing. Don’t find yourself living a superficial lifestyle. It will only create unnecessary pressures for you every day. Be satisfied with who you’re and what you have. If you want to attract the right people in your life, then you need to be the right person also. Don’t live under the pressure caused by social media. Be yourself. Grow at your own pace. Youthfulness this is a stage where you understand more of who you want to be in life. As a youth be creative by all means, enjoying making your own money and always be curious about knowing important life build activities. Simon T. Bailey says, never underestimate the power of curiosity. A desire to know and learn, curiosity ignites your mind, forcing it to come alive.profound and insightful questions. Strive to take fresh information. Consider your sources and then expand them. Find someone who inspires you and ask them what they are reading,When we’re dead and gone, people can judge us on what we accomplished. Until then, it’s up to us to keep searching for what we’ll accomplish next. Your curiosity puts you in the driver’s seat. Remember,youth always work on yourself. Be creative and be attentive.