The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter REAL Betis Football Academy have planned a tour of Spain for their Under-19 boys’ team once lower football gets the green light to resume. The academy, which is yet to get down to business since the imposition of the coronavirus lockdown rules, has been recruiting age group players through registration. However, they hope to continue with their recruitment programme when all football activities return. So far only the men’s and women’s top-flight leagues have been given the nod by the Sports Commission to return to action, and are currently preparing for the start of their leagues. Yesterday, Real Betis Academy chairman, Gerald Sibanda, said they are encouraged by the successful return of football and are also engaging the authorities so that their academy, which was launched last year, begins operations. “In a few months, our Under-19 Academy boys will be going on tour to Spain for a life-changing experience of training, education, matches and high-level exposure at Real Betis facilities in Seville. “We are encouraged by the successful return of local football and the efforts by our Government to ensure the sporting environment is safe for our players to pursue their football education and professional career pathway through our Betis Academy in Zimbabwe. “We have begun engagement with authorities, ZIFA, the Sports Commission and the Government to ensure we return to training,” said Sibanda. Sibanda also thanked the parents and their commercial partners who continue to partner with the academy for their patience. “As soon as we have the green light to resume training again, we will continue with the recruitment programme across various regions in Zimbabwe,” he said. The academy which is taking take onboard players between the ages of 8 and 18, will be overseen by Real Betis technical director, Juan Parra. Former Premiership Soccer Star of the Year, Murape Murape, is the head coach of the academy. Highlanders legends Johannes Ngodzo and Gift Lunga (Jnr) are the first and second assistants. Tichaona Diya and Philemon Mutyakureva are also on board as assistant coaches in the academy whose medical side will be overseen by sports medicine expert Nicholas Munyonga.