The Herald ZimStat, the national statistics agency, is now very carefully explaining just what inflation figures mean and how they are derived, a necessary function since so many people, as the professional graduate statisticians at ZimStat discover that what is obvious to them can so easily be misinterpreted or twisted. As ZimStat have carefully explained, there is a falling inflation rate, and both year-on-year and month-on-month rates are falling although there are ups and downs in the month-on-month rate but the general trend is south. But this does not mean prices are falling. You need a negative rate to get falling prices and negative rates for a while to measure deflation. But a falling positive rate means that prices are, on average, not rising so fast as they were, just as a rising positive rate means the cost of living is rising ever faster. The inflation rate does not measure the cost of living, let alone the prices of individual items. It measures the change in the cost of living and with the two sets of statistics offered by ZimStat we get the change in the cost of living over the past month and the change over the past year. The other point that ZimStat had to make is that they do not just suck the figures out of the air, or use exchange rates, either official or black market, or measure the prices of just one item or a small group of items. What they do is measure the actual prices on a particular day each month of 495 products, all classified according to an international standard set by the technical units in the United Nations system, to be precise they use the United Nations Statistics Division’s Classification of Individual Consumption by Purpose And they do not just pop into the nearest shopping centre to the ZimStat headquarters to do that measurement. The team goes to more than 4 000 outlets across the country, in rural areas and urban areas, hitting supermarkets, general dealers, department stores, open markets fuel stations, council offices, restaurants, liquor stores, hairdressers, bus companies, taxis, hair salons, communication providers and anyone else who sells the listed good and services. Obviously, no one sells all 495 products and services, although some will sell quite a few, so in the end they get 35 000 figures, an average of around 71 different prices for each product although some will have more data points and some less. And they manage to get all these 35 000 readings from more than 4000 collection points in just five days each month, so they are, as far as is humanly possible, comparing like to like. The methodology also takes into account brands. They do not just collect the price of the cheapest or the most expensive brand, but of a particular set brand, so once again the comparison over a month or a year is comparing like to like. The data is fed into a formula. This gets a mean price for each product, regardless of where it is sold, and then gives it a weight. For example, the cost of mealie meal may have more effect on the cost of living than the cost of a hair-do. This weighting is not based on the consumption of any single individual person or family, but again is a composite set of averages based on an actual survey of a large number of households, a sample big enough to meet the statistical rules. So the final cost of living figure generated will not measure the actual cost of living of any particular household, and in fact it is probably impossible for it to do so as there will be fractions, something like 1,4 bags of some product. But it will measure the cost of living of your idealised average family generated the survey. While 495 items cover a lot of territory, it will exclude many items that some families buy, although probably includes all the items that the family of a skilled worker is likely to buy. This causes some confusion in some circles, for example in households that spend a lot of money on expensive imported luxuries that are not in the 495. But it will give a far better indication of what a skilled worker in Budiriro might be buying, but even then that worker needs to have a family close to the mean and consumption close to the mean, right down to brands. But the 495 items are now largely locally produced items, so inferences, such as the inflation rate generated from the pricing, can give some fairly solid basis for determining how the general economy is doing. So the general inflation rates generated are useful to a lot more people than just the “average family”. The rest of the calculations are simple. ZimStat takes this month’s cost of living index, compares it to last month’s, and the percentage difference is the month-on-month inflation. As like is compared to like and even the data collection dates are the same, this gives a fair indication of any rise. Then they compare the figure for this month with that for the same month last year, and you get the year-on-year inflation percentage. It should again be stressed that ZimStat does not attempt to measure what causes the rise, or fall, in price in any particular item in the 495 and are not concerned about the reason. They measure the rise or the fall and comment on which rises or falls are most influential in changes to the cost of living over a month, but deal purely with the facts on the ground, the actual prices and do not guess. It needs to be also stressed that ZimStat has a great deal of independence. The Government input is limited to paying the salaries, buying the computers and the like. Politicians do not determine what data is collected or how the data is used to generate the figures. That is the job of professional statisticians, and the methodologies are checked now and then by other professionals from the International Monetary Fund, Sadc and Comesa. ZimStat passes these “audits”. Even then, with the accurate statistics, people need to know how to interpret them. For example, the year-on-year percentage change is, as many economists now note, not particularly useful because of the sudden discontinuity from September after the exchange rate stabilised. That percentage includes the last four months of what has been described as the devaluation process or the process to get a market-related exchange rate. Month-on-month inflation is a better guide. Those who desperately want some indication that translates into a useful figure to gauge annual inflation for prediction purposes would be far better off to take the mean of the monthly rates for the last eight months and then annualise using the compound interest formula we all learned at school. That comes to just over 50 percent at the moment but is drifting down generally as monthly inflation is tending to fall. We will see the full effect of the far lower monthly rates from September’s ZimStat annual figure.