The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter MARSHALL Munetsi’s Stade de Reims plunged back into the relegation matrix after they suffered a huge defeat at the hands of French Ligue 1 championship chasers, Paris Saint-Germain, at the weekend. The Warriors midfielder was in the thick of things the entire 90 minutes against the star-studded Parisians as Reims completed a dismal run of seven games without winning. They lost 0-4. Munetsi, who has often played in central defence, was thrust into the attacking midfield position where he was involved with the PSG stars like Neymar and Angel di Maria, Ander Herera, Julian Draxler and Portuguese Danilo Pereira. Reims, who have drawn four and lost three in their last seven outings, are now two points clear of the relegation play-offs, and are among the five teams fighting for safety ahead of the final weekend matches. They were no match for PSG, who are looking to defend their title. PSG surged ahead after Reims had defender Yunis Abdelhamid sent off in the 11th minute for a handball, and Neymar converted the penalty. Kylian Mbappe doubled the lead midway through the first-half after a mistake from defender Thomas Foket. Central defender Marquinhos scored with a trademark header midway through the second half and Italy striker Moise Kean completed the rout in the last minute. PSG set up a final day thriller with log leaders Lille in the French Ligue 1 race. The two teams are separated by a point going into the decisive weekend; sitting on 79 and 80 points. Third-placed Monaco are still in with a shout on 77 points but Tino Kadewere’s Olympique Lyon crashed out of the race despite a 5-2 win at Nimes. Kadewere missed the match on Sunday night due to injury. The Warriors forward, who had just returned from a thigh injury, failed to recover on time for the penultimate round clash after picking a fresh injury. Lyon moved to 76 points with the win but they trail leaders Lille by four points going into the final round matches this weekend. Another Warriors defender, Teenage Hadebe, ensured that he will be playing top-flight football in Turkey next season after Yeni Malatyaspor survived relegation. Hadebe featured in the 1-3 defeat to Galatasaray in the final game of the season at the weekend but Malatyaspor still managed to stay afloat, five points clear of the relegation zone. Former Warriors midfield kingpin Willard Katsande played a cameo as South African giants Kaizer Chiefs hammered Simba SC of Tanzania 4-0 in the first leg of the CAF Champions League quarter-finals at FNB Stadium. Chiefs inched closer to their first ever CAF Champions League semi-final with the victory and will be hoping to complete the mission in Dar-es-salaam this coming weekend. Goalkeeper Washington Arubi had another clean sheet for Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila as the Limpopo side eased their relegation worries with a 1-0 win over Maritzburg United. They are now three points above the drop zone, with three rounds of play remaining. Veteran goalkeeper Tapuwa Kapini also had a good weekend after he kept a 10th clean sheet in the South African Glad Africa Championship as his side Sekukhune United pressed for promotion from the second tier with a 2-0 victory over Polokwane City.