The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter WHEN all gyms were closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic in March last year, aerobics instructor Faith Chaodza found herself in a fix. That her husband Barney Murugweni is also a fitness trainer worsened matters for they had to quickly look elsewhere to fend for their three children. After all, Chaodza was working for different gyms on a bit-part basis, a scenario she says guaranteed her some handsome pay-outs. But, in a flash, her source of livelihood was under serious threat. “As an aerobics instructor, I was working for different gyms in Harare before all sporting activities were frozen out due to the pandemic last year,” Chaodza said. “It was hard to adjust. I found myself in an uncomfortable position. That my husband was earning from being a fitness as well did not help matters either. “All gyms were suddenly closed during the Covid-19-induced lockdown so I found myself doing nothing with my only source of income drying up.” But, Chaodza realised that people needed to remain fit even during the pandemic. That was to be the beginning of her journey to form her own fitness club, GoFit-CrossFit, which was launched at Allan Wilson School in Harare on Saturday with all Covid-19 protocol in place. “As I was pondering at home, I just realised that people still had to be fit even during lockdown. “I then decided to reach out to people with a view to train them, virtually. “That’s how I came up with a small group and I started training them individually and that helped me a lot during the lockdown period for I could earn a little bit of money to sustain myself and the family.” Chaodza said the centre will go a long way in keeping the population fit. “Cross-fit is a full body workout, a combination of tyre work-out, aerobics, zumba and weights, basically it’s everything. “It’s basically for weight loss, toning and a bit of bulking. But we are not for body building. “I have always wanted to do something different, something that makes a big punch to one. It has also helped me a lot to get back to full fitness after having three babies.