The Herald Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWE Handball Federation is looking at introducing beach handball as a way of growing the sport in the country. Several courses have been done in the last few years, assessing the possibilities of introducing beach handball locally. ZHF technical director, Farai Gwisai said it is one of the two initiatives they are looking at this year among other programmes. “Beach handball, at the moment in Zimbabwe we managed to have courses done, international level courses. They came and did a highlight course to show people that this can be done and we have done some online courses. “So as a strategy for Zimbabwe now we want to try to run a course, then most likely we are going to launch it in Binga because of the facilities that are there, it has got a natural beach. So we are going to launch it. “At the moment we are trying to run courses around Zimbabwe to make sure the coaches have the knowledge. “We are also experimenting for four and four handball, which is a Commonwealth project to try and have less players taking part in the sport, you know with issues like Covid-19, it needs less people gathering at one place. These are the two things we are looking at, at the moment. Handball was invited to be in Commonwealth,” said Gwisai. The ZHF technical director said they are currently working on their strategic plan since they now have a new executive.
But they are likely to put their plans into action next month. “At the moment we are still polishing up on our strategic plan and inductions are going on, so we are working on a strategic plan. As soon as we are done I think next month we should be running these courses around Zimbabwe,” said Gwisai. They are looking at it more on the recreational side and generating interest from the corporate world in handball, which they believe can improve sponsorship for their activities. “Beach handball is a version of recreational in handball, which attracts more corporates coming in…So it’s another way of drawing corporates in the system of handball, so that sponsorship becomes easy. “It’s also good for fitness for players. For those who play indoor handball, off season they can go and play beach handball for their fitness,” said Gwisai.