The Herald Columbus Mabika Herald Reporter The Zimbabwe National Army (ZNA) last week nabbed a bogus soldier, Munamati Mkuhuleki Nyathi (36), for duping potential recruits while masquerading as a recruiting agent. Nyathi was once a member of the ZNA and was discharged from the force for disciplinary reasons last year. He was arrested for defrauding potential recruits in Guruve where the ZNA was conducting a recruitment. In a statement yesterday, ZNA director public relations Colonel Alphios Makotore said: “A bogus soldier Nyathi Mkuhuleki Munamati (36) was apprehended by members of the ZNA military police at Guruve Centre last week for defrauding potential recruits US$140. “Nyathi was discharged from the force in 2020.” Col Makotore said circumstances around the issue were that Nyathi approached the complainants Michael Gunje (23) and Tatenda Chitsiga both from Guruve and promised to facilitate their recruitment into the ZNA. He then gave the complainants assurance that they would get the job, citing that he was going to be assisted by a General since he was well connected. Col Makotore said Nyathi further took the complainants to Harare on the pretext that he was going to introduce them to the said General where he allegedly dumped them near Harare Central Prison along the road leading to Josiah Magama Tongogara Barracks. He said the matter came to light when the complainants made a report at the Harare District military police department, leading to the arrest of Nyathi. Col Makotore said Nyathi was handed over to Guruve Police Station and appeared at Guruve Magistrate Courts last Saturday and remanded in custody. He advised members of the public that the ZNA did not engage third parties in its recruitment processes. “The ZNA would once again like to warn members of the public that it does not engage third parties on recruitment practices, neither charge a fee on applicants wishing to join the force,” said Col Makotore. “Members of the public who are approached or come across these bogus soldiers should immediately report to the nearest police station or ZNA Military Police branches.”