The Herald Freedom Mupanedemo Midlands Bureau President Mnangagwa is today expected to officiate at the National Culture Commemoration Day at Chief Njelele’s homestead in Gokwe, Midlands Province, as the country celebrates its cultural diversity this week. This is in line with the universal declaration on cultural diversity by the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) in 2001 which proclaimed May 21 as the World Day of Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development. Midlands Provincial Affairs and Devolution Minister Senator Larry Mavima said there would be an array of cultural exhibitions at the launch with the President also expected to tour some of the exhibition stands pitched up at the Chief’s homestead. “We are honoured to host the launching of this year’s Culture Week and the President will be our guest of honour as we celebrate our African and particularly Zimbabwean culture in all its diverse forms,” he said. Senator Mavima said each district is expected to have its own unique exhibition with people from various cultural backgrounds showcasing their artefacts. “It’s an important day as declared by UNESCO. This is why the President himself will be there to launch this day celebrated the world over. As the country we have taken it further to celebrate our culture for a whole week,” he said. Chief Njelele said he was elated to host the President at his homestead for the Culture Week. He said Zimbabweans have a unique culture which should be cherished and showcased to the world for the whole week. “We are happy as traditional leaders that our leadership recognises our culture and committing a whole week to celebrate our unique culture is incredible,” he said. Ms Kumbirai Kupfavira, the Midlands provincial arts manager said there would be various exhibitions from artists, sculptors, fashion designers and visual artists among                                                                        others. “The universal declaration on cultural diversity by UNESCO in 2001 proclaimed 21 May the World Day of Cultural Diversity for dialogue and development “We have for years celebrated cultural diversity for a week, hence the event is named Culture week, so we will be exhibiting our culture for a week from tomorrow (today),” she said. She said this year’s celebrations came in the middle of a ravaging Covid-19 pandemic and urged the public to celebrate the Culture Week while observing the Covid-19 control regulations.