The Herald LONDON. — Manchester City and Chelsea will play off for the biggest prize in European club football this month. But, there is plenty on the line, for both clubs, when they meet in a prelude to the Champions League final, today. City can wrap up a fifth English Premier League title, in 10 years, with victory, cementing their place as the dominant force in English football over the past decade. “We want to win to become champions but they also want to win because they want to finish fourth,” Algeria forward Mahrez, who scored three of his team’s four goals in a 4-1 aggregate victory against Paris St Germain in the Champions League semi-finals, told L’Equipe yesterday. “The pressure will be more on them.” City will then turn their sights towards the May 29 Champions League final, where they will meet Chelsea again, with Mahrez facing his former Leicester teammate Ngolo Kante. Both players were still in the lower divisions in France in their early 20s, with Kante playing in the third division in the 2012-13 season and Mahrez playing in Ligue 2 from 2011-14. “I’ve always had a lot of ambitions, I’ve always thought I would be able to score in the quarter and semifinals of the Champions League,” said Mahrez. “It’s true that there are players like (Kylian) Mbappe who manage to do that when they’re 17. B ‘’ut some of the players of my generation who were playing in Ligue 1 at 20 have since ended their career. “That’s when your career ends that you can assess it.” Chelsea’s transformation under Thomas Tuchel has taken them to a third Champions League final since their own transformational takeover when Roman Abramovich bought the Blues in 2003. However, the Blues are still paying for a slow start to the season under Frank Lampard with their place in next season’s Champions League far from guaranteed. Tuchel’s men are fourth in the English Premier League, three points clear of surprise top-four challengers West Ham. But should City seal the title in style and lay down a marker for Istanbul, Tottenham and Liverpool are also not out of the running for the top four. Chelsea ended City’s quest for a quadruple of trophies when they last met just three weeks ago in the FA Cup semi-finals However, that 1-0 win at Wembley was against a shadow City side as Pep Guardiola prioritised progressing in the Champions League. Gareth Bale gave Tottenham a taste of what they have been missing, with the Wales forward on the bench for most of the campaign under Jose Mourinho, prior to the Portuguese coach’s sacking. He scored his first English Premier League hat-trick in a 4-0 demolition of already-relegated Sheffield United last weekend. Victory for Spurs in today’s early game at Leeds would take Ryan Mason’s men to within two points of Chelsea. English Premiership Fixtures Today: Leeds v Tottenham (1:30pm); Sheffield United v Crystal Palace (4pm); Manchester City v Chelsea (6:30pm); Liverpool v Southampton (9:15pm). Tomorrow: Wolves v Brighton (1pm); Aston Villa v Manchester United (3:05pm); West Ham v Everton (5:30pm); Arsenal v West Brom (8pm). Monday: Fulham v Burnley (9pm).