The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga-Sports Reporter ITS that time again when all amateur golfers will have something to play for as the annual Club Championships tee off at all golf clubs across the country today. The two-day event will have pride at stake and will determine who will be the cub ambassador for the whole year. At Royal Harare, national team player, Michael Wallace, is expected to defend his title, which he won in 2019. There were no activities last year. Wallace, who recently represented the country at the African Amateur Stroke Play and Team Championship, South African Championship as well as the Stroke Play Championships, is in good shape. The 19-year-old will face competition from the Campbell brothers, Mathew and Jonathan, who are doing well at the beautiful golf club. Royal Harare’s Louise Ward said they were ready for the tournament as the course was in fantastic condition and can host an international tournament at any given time. “Everyone is excited and they have everything to play for as they will be inscribed on the club’s champions record. ‘‘It is an open contest and I cannot tip anyone. The players have been active for the past two months and they are back to their best. “We have been preparing for this event and we are looking forward to it. ‘‘The players are ready and they had some practice rounds on Thursday and today (yesterday). ‘‘The green keepers have worked hard for this tournament and players are geared up as we are oversubscribed, with 187 players, committing themselves,” said Ward. Borrowdale Brooke could also have a tough contest as defending champion Sean Bell is there to try and retain his crown. Bell is likely to face competition from former professional, Jaison Jackson. Jackson has since reverted to amateur golf, due to lack of professional tournaments. Tendai Kunaka could also feature prominently. Brooke club manager, Simon Herring, said they were looking forward to a tough competition, with 120 golfers expected to turn up. “We are expecting a full field and we are going to have all the club members at one go, as we are an estate golf club. ‘‘We will have the juniors, women, amateurs and seniors at the same time. They will play in a medal format. ‘‘We are very excited as this is our major event and we are looking forward to a very competitive two days of golf,” said Herring At Falcon, in Hatfield, the battle will be between Munetsi Munetsi, Michael Janyure, Alex ‘’Dr Mash’’ Mashamhanda, Nicholas Munyonga, among others. The two-day 36-holes competition will be played by all golf clubs and has been cleared by the Zimbabwe Golf Association. The Club Championships will carter for three divisions, from C Division, which caters for the 24-36 handicap, B Division, from the 12-24 handicap and the Championship Division, from 0-12 handicap.