The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter HARARE Province has named a strong team to compete in the National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe Inter-provincial Track and Field Championships on this weekend at the National Sports Stadium. It is a mixture of experience and upcoming athletes with the likes of Olivia Chitate, Ebel Chibanda and Dickson Kamungeremu joining rising stars such as high jumper Kudakwashe Chadenga and sprinter Oliver Masara in making the team. Harare are hosting the national meet that will bring together athletes from different provinces on Saturday at the National Sports Stadium. The likes of Kamungeremu were in Zambia for the All Comers meet held over the weekend and will be hoping to carry the momentum into the national event this weekend. Harare Athletic Board vice-chairperson, Aaron Whyte, is confident of another successful outing as they gear up to battle with other provinces. “As Harare our motto is that we lead and others follow. We respect all the other provinces but that doesn’t mean that we are not working towards defending our championship. We are ready for that. “We know our athletes and coaches have been working hard not only for the inter-provincials but even for international competition. “Most of the athletes who have been doing well on the international circuit like Ngoni Makusha, they are from Harare Province. So, we have been working hard and what I can promise is that we are ready for battle,” said Whyte. Each province is expected to field two athletes per event, and being hosts, Harare is looking at fielding athletes in all events on offer as they seek to retain the championship. Team Ebel Chibanda, Wayne Kabondo, Wellington Varevi, Canicious Wenjere, Rudo Mhonderwa, Patience Garauzive, Nomore Wiriki, Olivia Chitate, Acqueline Bungu, Tapiwa Chineka, Onius Mukamba, Takudzwa Chiyangwa, Hona Musiiwa, Blessing Mapfumo, Ngonidzashe Makusha, Philimon Dhlodhlo, Mitchel Zuze, Ivy Mazhazha, Dickson Kamungeremu, Samukeliso Ndebele, Nyasha Chidza, Christine Magumise, Oliver Masara, Panashe Murambiwa, Joel Chandauka, Tanaka Njiri, Yeukai Rauzhi, Daniel Erasmus, Carlington Nyikadzino, Kudakwashe Chadenga, Marshall Mafemera, Kayla Wells, Anneka Colegrave, Theophelus Mudzengerere, Ethan Mavura, Mthabisi Ncube, Isaac Mufayi, Mathew Dives, Ruvarashe Mposhi.