The Herald FOOTBALL is our national sport, it’s a game which has evolved to be part of our soul, a favourite past-time for millions of Zimbabweans. We love football and derive a lot of pride from the occasional success stories which are written by our Warriors. When they come short, it dampens the mood of our country, we don’t walk with a spring in our step and we retreat to nurse our emotional wounds. We derive a lot of national pride that we are the only Southern African country with a footballer, Marvelous Nakamba, who is a regular feature of the English Premiership. It’s the most competitive football league in the world, emphasised this year by the way it has provided three of the four clubs, which will battle in the Champions League and Europa League finals. We have always driven a lot of national pride that one of our legendary footballers, Bruce Grobbelaar, is the most decorated African footballer in world football, after winning the European Cup, six English Premiership titles and three FA Cup winners’ medals, in 14 seasons at Liverpool. And, we have always driven a lot of national pride from the fact that Peter Ndlovu, our former Warriors captain, was the first African footballer to feature in the branded English Premiership, blazing a trail for the likes of Jay Jay Okocha, Samuel Eto’o and Didier Drogba to follow. When our Mighty Warriors defied the odds, to qualify for the 2016 Olympic Games, after knocking out giants Cameroon, it provided us with a moment to savour we all, for that period, walked with a spring in our steps. But, we are not just a people whose football dreams are restricted to what happens to our national teams. We also have strong attachments to our domestic football clubs, the likes of Dynamos, Highlanders, CAPS United, FC Platinum, Ngezi Platinum, Masvingo United, Black Rhinos, to name but just a few. When the Glamour Boys marched bravely to the CAF Champions League final, in 1998, it was a common sight at the National Sports Stadium for about 50 000 fans to come and inspire them to go all the way to transform them into champions of the continent. It was also the same story, 10 years later, when Dynamos made a mockery of the odds to reach the semi-finals of the same tournament, only to be eliminated by Cameroonian side, Coton Sport de Garoua. We have always boasted of a thriving domestic league programme, which every country needs, to ensure that there will always be a constant supply of fresh talent from which the best players can be picked, now and again, to ensure the national teams remain competitive. That the majority, and the best, of the players who have starred in the South African Premiership, the continent’s richest top-flight league, are Zimbabweans, illustrates the quality of our domestic league and its rich nurseries. But, without the support from big sponsors, the system which has been producing these talented players collapses and our national sport starts dying a slow, and painful, death. It’s therefore refreshing that, despite all the challenges which have been brought by the Covid-19 pandemic, which at one stage halted the game throughout the world, we still have local companies who are committed to ensure that our national game doesn’t die. On Thursday, Delta Beverages, who have been an all-weather friend to our football since 1962, extended their sponsorship of the Premier Soccer League, by announcing a US$3,3 million three-year package, for the domestic Premiership. Given that business has not been spared, by the challenges which have been inflicted by Covid-19, this investment by Delta Beverages, into our football, is quite a significant one. And, today we join all progressive Zimbabweans, who want to see their country moving forward, in hailing the sponsors for their commitment to ensuring that domestic football, which has been on hold for more than a year, comes back with a bang. There are some people who feel their job is just to criticise because, poisoned by the negativity of the politics which has become their sorry life, they don’t want to hear anything about something good happening in this country. In their world, they would rather hear that Delta Beverages, as a company, had collapsed, because that is what feeds perfectly to their narrative of negativity, to paint their picture of deception that nothing is working in Zimbabwe. They can’t understand that a local company can splash US$3,3 million, into football, to cheer the spirits of our people, to oil the domestic football industry, which employs thousands of people. These are the people who have been posting on social media platforms, suggesting that the money which Delta Beverages poured into this sponsorship package, is a drop in the ocean. But, we know the truth, which was captured correctly by the PSL chairman, Farai Jere, who said that this amounts to Z$288 million, at the current prevailing bank rate, and anyone who tells you that’s a small amount doesn’t deserve the dignity of your attention. Anyone who suggests US$3,3 million is a small amount, to try and service a lie which suits his or her political interests, has just dropped from Mars because the reality is that, in the current harsh global economic climate, Delta Beverages have, indeed, flexed their muscles. They deserve our support, for having the responsibility as a giant of our corporate world, to ensure they play a part in the development of our country, even as we battle this pandemic, and helping ensure that our domestic football industry doesn’t collapse, is a huge investment.