The Herald Columbus Mabika
Arts Reporter
Twenty-four-year-old model, Devson Takudzwa Luzane is looking for sponsorship ahead of his participation at this year’s edition of Mister Africa International pageant scheduled to take place in Côte d’Ivoire. According to the organisers of the Mister Africa International, the final is on September 16 to 19 in Abidjan, the capital of Côte d’Ivoire, where models will be in boot-camp before crowning of the king. Luzane, who is representing Zimbabwe, will compete against 18 others from various countries. The Gweru-based model said preparations were at an advanced stage, despite some financial challenges. “My pageant preparation starts from my body transformation. I am currently training with Studio X gym in Gweru which happens to be my sole sponsor and my ultimate personal trainer for the journey is Wellington Magura. “I have a certain muscle mass target, hence I am always in the gym, having a fitness trainer and a strict diet I am supposed to follow. I am also working on skin and dental care. It is costly and I am appealing for well-wishers to chip in to achieve this goal, even corporates.” Luzane said the budget was high and had split it so that it could be easier to work on. “I have projects that I have to accomplish as per the requirements. I should have workshops in both primary and secondary schools, at least three in every city, which includes rural areas, so as to advocate for gender equality, ending child marriages, raising a call to child abuse exposure, as well as motivate youth on education and drug abuse awareness. “This is part of my module that I will then present at the finale.” Luzane said he wanted sponsorship to cover his flights to and from Côte d’Ivoire, the pageant fee, beauty therapy and the fashion designs. The commercial model, who has worked with some of the reputable stakeholders who include Studio X, Edgars, Senditoo, Wakefield Lodge, Olive House Fashion, Relievers Funeral Services, The Boundary, Eve Beauty Spa,and Jet Zimbabwe, was optimistic of bringing the title home. “Given much support and the finances to achieve everything I want as planned, I will definitely bring the crown home. So far I am doing well on the voting platforms.” Luzane said the local male modelling industry was struggling from recognition and appreciation. “We are often not taken seriously, hence the lack of funding and support, but best believe me during my reign as the king, a bit of light was brought and I can say attention is slowly coming to us,” he said. Luzane was crowned Mister Zimbabwe 2019-2020 two years ago and has been holding the title since then. Mister Africa International is one of the few male pageants in Africa and is currently in its ninth year. Previously, Zimbabwe has been represented by two models Tapiwa Zimhamba who is now based in South Africa, and Tevin Bradley Komorayi who is in the United Kingdom. Mister Africa International Zimbabwe acting director Tapiwanashe Rubaya urged Zimbabweans to rally behind Luzane as he was about to make history. Asked how Luzane was selected to represent the country, Rubaya said the talented model had the capabilities and modelling credentials. “If he wins the title, he is going to have an opportunity of working in Africa’s film industry with big names, feature in commercial magazines, become a brand ambassador for exclusive brands and to catwalk on international ramps such as Ghana men’s fashion week, Seychelles fashion week and travel across Africa,” said Rubaya. He said Luzane was leading in the first round for Mister popularity as he has moved votes. Last year, the event was cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic after Luzane had been selected to represent the country. The outgoing Mister Africa international is Emmanuel Umoh from Nigeria. Apart from the main title of Mister Africa International, other titles up for grabs at the pageant include Best Charity, Most Strength, Best Body, People’s Choice and Mr Popularity.