The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo-Senior Arts Reporter Bindura award-winning gospel musician Jonah Chivasa has said his latest offering “Shh” featuring South African songwriter and music producer Takie Ndou, real name Aubrey Takalani, is like a prayer, giving hope to everyone during Covid-19 times. Chivasa, who dropped the single last Saturday on social media, said in an interview with The Herald that the song was spiritually uplifting. In the song, the “Ndozvinoita Nyasha” hitmaker talks about how hopeless people can be during hard times, but they need to do is to be silent — “Shh” — and let God lead. “The song was inspired by the story of the Israelites when they were faced by a dead end, where before them was the Red Sea and behind them Pharaoh and the Egyptian army,” said Chivasa. “They were hopeless! “However, God, through Moses, reassured the Israelites that this would be their last time to see the Egyptian and to be still and witness the deliverance of God. In this pandemic stricken era, my song “Shh”comes to give hope to the hopeless, promising everyone that this too shall pass. “Shh” is taken from the English word shush and Chivasa said it is an encouragement for someone to be quiet and calm down. The song was produced by Macdonald Chidavaenzi of Eternity Productions. Asked why he released a single and not an album and what has been keeping him busy, Chivasa said he was not only a musician, but an entrepreneur and sport personality with other projects. “I decided to release a single because of the motive behind this song,” he said. “We are in a pandemic and the song has a specific goal and message which cannot be carried by a whole album. Hence, the song has to be released by itself since it is acting as an antidote.” “Shh is a groovy song with a typical contemporary South African mid-tempo beat. The lyrics are literally positive proclamations of God’s rescuing hand as the singer waves goodbye to adverse situations. “As for the rest of this year, I will be going solo in order to establish my brand independently,” said Chivasa. “I take long to release a song because I believe that each song has its perfect season. A song released out of season will not do justice to its owner or purpose. “Besides music, I am an entrepreneur, sportsman and head of a family.” Chivasa said a video of a live performance of the song was now in post-production and would be released soon. The video was shot at the Carnival City in Johannesburg. “We all have been living by God’s grace in this pandemic,” said Chivasa. “I thank God for a supportive partner who has made the lockdown liveable. More over, the song itself has encouraged me during this pandemic.” Ndou said he met Chivasa a year ago when he was asked to mentor him. “We have been communicating ever since I started mentoring him,” he said. “Chivasa wrote the song and sent it to me and by the time I was supposed to put my verse, I tested positive for Covid-19 and the song took me through my healing, hence it became a perfect song for me to sing with him. “I later put my input and the producer worked magic. I am happy with the Zimbabwean talent I am coming across every time.”