The Herald Sports Reporter RIVALS 10, Warriors 1. That will be the scoreline, by the time the FIFA window for friendly internationals close next month, between the Warriors and their 2022 World Cup rivals, in terms of preparatory matches played. Coach Zdravko Logarusic would have seen his 2022 World Cup Group G opponents — Ghana, South Africa and Ethiopia — playing a combined nine more friendly internationals, since he took charge of his only friendly match, in October last year. That match was against Malawi, in Blantyre, which ended in a goalless draw, after most of the players, whom the Croatian gaffer had targeted for assessment, failed to report for duty. Only Khama Billiat, Marvelous Nakamba, Teenage Hadebe, Devine Lunga and Alec Mudimu, among his regular players, featured in the starting XI, in that match. Seven months later, it remains the only friendly match, which Loga has presided over. And, predictably, his men won’t be in action, again, next month, during the window provided by the postponement of the start of the 2022 World Cup African qualifiers, from June to September. Group favourites Ghana have even arranged two international friendlies, probably inspired by the importance of such matches, since they have been to the World Cup three times, in the past 15 years. They will play Cote d’Ivoire and Morocco next month. “That is why it’s seriously important for us to prepare very well,’’ Black Stars coach, CK Aknoor, told the Ghanaian media, when the friendlies were announced, earlier this month. “So, I am very grateful to the GFA (Ghanaian Football Association) for, within this short period, to organise this friendly which is very appropriate for us.’’ Ghana would have played four friendly matches, since October last year, when the Warriors took on the Flames, by the time they complete their two assignments against the Ivoirians and the Moroccans. The Black Stars lost 0-3 to Mali, on October 9, last year, before thrashing 2022 World Cup hosts, Qatar, 5-1, three days later. Bafana Bafana, battling for a return to the World Cup, for the first time since they hosted the tournament in 2010, have a friendly international date against Uganda, next month. The South Africans would have played three friendly matches, against Namibia, Zambia and Uganda, between October last year and June this year, by the time they complete their assignment against the East Africans, next month. Their choice to go for the Ugandans was not by default — they were looking for one of the teams which the Warriors played, either in the recent AFCON qualifiers, or at the 2019 Nations Cup finals. Ethiopia, the other 2022 World Cup Group G member, have already played three times, in friendlies, between October last year and March this year, when they thrashed Malawi 4-0. If there is any cold comfort, for the Warriors, then it could probably come from the fact that combined, the 10 friendlies, for their rivals, and their sole friendly match, brings a real football number (11) — the number of players who can feature for a team, at any time, in a match. Black Stars 30-man Squad For June Friendly Internationals GOALKEEPERS: Richard Ofori (Orlando Pirates), Razak Abalora (Asante Kotoko), Ibrahim Danlad (King Faisal) DEFENDERS: Baba Abdul Rahman (PAOK), Gideon Mensah (Vitoria Guimarães), Andy Yaidom (Reading FC), Philemon Baffuor (Dreams FC), Alexander Djiku (Strasbourg FC), Daniel Amartey (Leicester City), Ismail Ganiyu (Asante Kotoko), Joseph Adjei (Legon Cities), Nicholas Opoku (Amiens FC). MIDFIELDERS: Mubarak Wakaso (Shenzhen FC), Thomas Partey (Arsenal FC), Kudus Mohammed (Ajax Amsterdam), Rashid Nortey (Medeama SC), Abdul Fatawu Issahaku (Steadfast FC), Emmanuel Lomotey (Amiens SC), Gladson Awako (Great Olympics), Baba Idrissu (RCD Mallorca) ATTACKERS: Left Wing: Samuel Owusu (Al-Fayha FC), Emmanuel Gyasi (Spezia), Frank Acheampong (Shenzhen FC), Tariqe Fosu Henry (Brentford FC), Kamal Sowah (OH Leuven), Kamaldeen Sulemana (Nordsjaelland), Andre Ayew (Swansea City FC), Jordan Ayew (Crystal Palace FC), Kwame Opoku (USM Alger), Joseph Paintsil (Ankaragücu).