The Herald MADRID – Barely a week has gone by this season without Diego Simeone pronouncing his mantra of “one game at a time.” And, now, it really rings true, with Atletico Madrid one match away from winning the Spanish La Liga title. If they beat Real Valladolid today, they will be crowned champions for the first time since 2014, and few could argue given they will have been top of the table since December. But, Real Madrid are lurking, only two points behind, and ready to dip their neck over the line, at the last moment. They have not led La Liga since October 17. Real Madrid will have to win at home against Villarreal to have any chance but the omens looks good for Zinedine Zidane’s side, given their opponents may not be at full strength. Villarreal are in a three-way battle to finish fifth and sixth, with the team that comes seventh dropping out of the Europa League and into the new and less lucrative Europa Conference League. But Villarreal could do even better and qualify for the Champions League if they defeat Manchester United in the Europa League final, four days after their game at Valdebebas. “We will have an eye on the Manchester United game,” said Villarreal coach Unai Emery on Wednesday. A draw for Atletico could mean the top two are tied on points but that would see the trophy returned to Real Madrid, who would sneak it on head-to-head. In some ways, Atletico might benefit from the situation being clear. They will almost certainly have win to claim the title and can look for victory from the start. Valladolid might have been relegated already had results gone against them last weekend but instead they are still fighting to be the one team out of three that survives. Huesca and Elche are the others scrapping to finish 17th, with both of them two points ahead of Valladolid, the trio sandwiched between already-relegated Eibar and Getafe, who are safe. Spanish La Liga Fixtures Today: Celta Vigo v Real Betis, Eibar v Barcelona, Huesca v Valencia, Osasuna v Real Sociedad, Real Madrid v Villarreal, Real Valladolid v Atletico Madrid, Elche v Athletic Bilbao (all 6pm). Tomorrow: Granada v Getafe (6:30pm), Sevilla v Alaves (9pm) – AFP