The Herald LONDON – Harry Kane has admitted how Jose Mourinho’s relationships with number of the Tottenham squad “didn’t work” before he was sacked last month. In an tell-all interview with Gary Neville on The Overlap YouTube channel, Kane revealed how he had a great relationship with Mourinho while explaining why the he wasn’t so big into sports science like other managers were. In a massive contrast to former boss Mauricio Pochettino, Kane has said Mourinho instead left the Tottenham players to their own devices during his time as manager. “It was pretty much completely different if I’m honest,” Kane told Neville when asked about the two managers’ way of doing things. “Just in the style of play, the way they set up, tactical training we would do. “Obviously Mauricio we do a lot of gym work, it was a lot gym base whereas Jose wasn’t so much into that but Jose obviously expected us to be men and act like men on the pitch, have leaders on the pitch. “To be honest, that’s probably where it didn’t quite work out with Jose we didn’t quite have enough leadership that we needed at the time. Obviously the club was in a difficult stage, with Mauricio getting sacked it’s never easy a new manager coming in. “I think with Jose I had a great relationship with him, we got on from minute one. I think we understood each other, we had a similar mentality and how we saw stuff on the pitch, off the pitch and mentality in training so we kind of built that relationship. “Again it’s a shame we couldn’t go on to win things but I’ve been lucky enough to work with Mauricio and Jose, they’re two incredible managers that’s only helped me in my career for sure.” When asked about Mourinho’s approach to sports science, Kane explained how the Portuguese boss wasn’t exactly against it and never wanted to “babysit” the squad. “It’s not like he’s against it (sports science),” Kane added. “It’s not like he says I don’t want you to it but it wasn’t what he thought of doing first and foremost. It was more on the pitch, this is what we need to do, this is how we need to set up. “Training on the pitch then he almost left you to be professional outside of it, he didn’t kind of look after it and babysit it. “We still had gym sessions that sports science guys would put stuff on but he wouldn’t, he kind of expected that almost. You know, we’re professional footballers, he shouldn’t have to tell us to do gym it should be a given.”  -Mailonline