The Herald Joseph Madzimure Senior Reporter Zanu PF has urged its members to participate in the on-going cell restructuring exercise across the country to realise the targeted five million votes in the 2023 harmonised elections. Politburo members and the National Elections Commission (NEC) members have been tasked to oversee the exercise. Lieutenant-General Engelbert Rugeje (Retired) and Cde Fortune Chasi will be overseeing the restructuring exercise in Bulawayo province. Harare province will be led by Cde Tsitsi Muzenda; Manicaland province, Cde Kenneth Musanhi; Mashonaland Central Cde Edina Madzongwe; Mashonaland East Cde Paul Mangwana; Masvingo province, Cde Christopher Mutsvangwa; Mashonaland West, Brigadier-General (Rtd) Walter Kanhanga and Cde Tendai Chirau; Midlands Cde Lovemore Matuke; Matabeleland North Cde Richard Ndlovu while Matabeleland South will be led by Cde Douglas Mahiya. The cell restructuring exercise is meant to ensure all party members regardless of position are registered in their respective cells. New members and those who have defected from the opposition are also expected to be registered as cell members in their respective areas. The restructuring exercise started last week, while some provinces started this week. Speaking during a weekly briefing at the Zanu PF headquarters in Harare yesterday, the party’s Secretary for Information and Publicity Cde Simon Khaya Moyo urged members to register to vote and take part in the restructuring exercise. “We remind all and sundry that everyone should go and register in their local cell structures and register to vote. “Zanu PF wishes to announce to members of the public and our membership in particular that the cell registration and membership registration exercise have begun across the nation. All our new members as well as all existing members of the Party are hereby informed of the need to register as voters. “We make it clear that the position of the party is that all members and supporters must be registered voters. That means if you have not registered to vote, you are lagging behind. It is one thing to support and be a member of the party and another thing to be a registered voter.” Senior party members have been urged to continue mobilising people to register to vote. “All party leadership at every level must continue to peacefully mobilise our people to register to vote. Take note that voter registration is a continuous process and no one must be left behind,” said Cde Khaya Moyo. The party is currently working towards five million members ahead of the 2023 general elections.