The Herald Crime Reporter
The Zimbabwe Republic Police has expressed concern over an increase in hit-and-run accidents countrywide. This comes after some people have been killed while others injured on the country’s major roads. In a statement this week, police said drivers should stop after being involved in an accident. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi said they were concerned over an increase in such cases. “The ZRP is concerned with motorists who are killing and injuring pedestrians who will be crossing roads. On May 2, 2021, a man aged 29 was hit by a Hino Sino truck at the intersection of Five Avenue and Sam Nujoma Street in Harare,” he said. He said the victim sustained head injuries and died upon admission at Parirenyatwa Hospital. On May 3, another 68-year-old pedestrian died after being hit by a Toyota Coaster along Bulawayo Road near Kuwadzana roundabout. “On the same date, a woman aged 34 died on the spot after she was hit by a Nissan Caravan while trying to cross Mutare Road, near Mutangadura. “Police urges motorists and pedestrians to be observant on the roads,” Asst Comm Nyathi said.
Cases on hit and run accidents have been on the increase this year with some of the drivers being arrested and charged for culpable homicide while others are still at large. Last month, two pupils, a boy and a girl were killed in a hit and run accident which occurred in Zvishavane. The driver had failed to give-way on a zebra crossing. A hit and run driver, Herbert Chakanyuka was last month fined a total of $15 000 by a Harare Magistrate for two traffic offences he committed after knocking down a minor at the intersection of Liberation Legacy Way (formerly Borrowdale Road) and Harare Drive on March 28 this year. Chakanyuka was fined $5 000 for failing to stop at the accident scene and another for negligent driving.
He admitted to the charges when he appeared before magistrate Ms Tendai Muchini, who also ordered the endorsement of Chakanyuka’s driver’s license.