The Herald Talent Bope
Arts Reporter
Local celebrities have urged Zimbabweans to uphold and preserve the African culture to ensure it is passed to the future generations. The celebrities said this ahead of Africa Day, which is commemorated today. Africa Day was born out of a collaboration of all African States in 1963 with the thrust to mobilise decolonisation in Africa under the Organisation of African Union (OAU), now African Union. The day is celebrated on May 25 every year. Ghana became the first African country in the South of the Sahara to be independent, on March 6, 1957, under the leadership of Kwame Nkrumah. Its independence served as an inspiration to other African countries fighting against colonial rule, and Ghana played a central role in this objective, which saw Zimbabwe attaining Independence on April 18, 1980. The celebrities said Africa Day was a reflection of the journey travelled by the continent and should be regarded as special and worthy of celebration. Felistas Murat Edwards affectionately known as Mai Tt, urged women to observe Africa Day. She said technology, while it has speeded communication and created a global village, it was central to cultural erosion. “As young ladies we should learn to preserve our culture. As we commemorate this special day Africa Day, we should not forget to preserve our culture as Africans. “Our identity is no longer African as it has been eroded through technology. We have adopted foreign culture. It’s (Africa Day) a great day for us. “To those single ladies who are yet to be married, remain focused. Don’t follow foreign or Western culture as a marriage ceremony also depicts our culture as Africans. Chegutu-based gospel artiste, Tafadzwa Chiwaridzo, said Africa was a peaceful place to live. “I feel very grateful to our forefathers who brought this continental thing, the Africa Day, where we celebrate our African identity. As a gospel artiste, I thank God for being African and we are even recognised since the one who carried the cross of Jesus Christ on his way to Calvary was an African and again Jesus sought refuge in Africa when Herod wanted to kill male children,” said Chiwaridzo. “This clearly indicates that we are highly recognised even in the Bible, which reflects Africa as a peaceful place where the Son of God found it appropriate to hide from brutal killings of siblings in his native home. “I advise other artistes to be proud of being African and to use our own language to preach the gospel of Africanism,” he said. ZORA music guru, Leonard Karikoga Zhakata, implored upcoming artistes to focus on music that condemns violence in Africa. “I urge all musicians to put an African flavour in all songs that we sing,” said Zhakata. “We should understand that Africa Day is not just a day but it is a day that carries the history of the liberation of an African continent. It’s a day that we should speak of African development and keep our African identity alive through music, plays and even paintings. “The old generation of musicians was mainly focusing on upholding the African culture. Some people think it was politics but it is not that. It was an idea of upholding Pan-Africanism as well as the revolutionary spirit by our forefathers which spurred decolonisation.” Zhakata urged young artistes not to disappoint the older generation in music but remain focused, and uphold African identity. He said musicians should love their identity and not advocate for violence in Africa. “We should strongly condemn this practice and call for lasting peace,” he said.