The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE international football striker Tino Kadwere says he is happy to return to the pitch after recovering from a thigh injury and is now focused to help Olympique Lyon secure a top three place in the French Ligue 1. The Warriors forward addressed a virtual press conference this afternoon ahead of Lyon’s home game against Lorient scheduled for this Saturday. Lyon are currently fourth in the race and are desperate to nail a place in the top three to secure a UEFA Champions League ticket. There are three rounds of play left in the French Ligue 1. Kadewere, who recently spent two weeks on the sidelines, featured as a half time substitute last weekend as Lyon edged third-placed Monaco 3-2 in an epic clash that saw five players being shown red cards. “It was a wonderful victory on Sunday. We are focused for the next game,” he said. “We will have a lot of absentees. We will have to play a good game and we must do everything to win (against Lorient).” “I’m feeling better and better. I’m very happy to play again and to be able to help the team for these last three games. We want to reach the Champions League. Everything is still possible.” As of the 2017–18 season, as determined by the UEFA coefficient, the top three teams in Ligue 1 qualify for the Champions League, with the top two proceeding directly to the group phase. The third-placed team enters in the third qualifying round. The fourth-placed team qualifies for the UEFA Europa League. Kadewere has scored 10 goals for Lyon in his debut season. Memphis Depay, Marcelo and Rayan Cherki’s goals sealed a victory for Lyon in their last outing at Monaco. “It’s important for us to win on Saturday in order to overtake Monaco. Rayan Cherki did us a lot of good in that game. It gives a lot of confidence to do a good job this week. “I’m going to give everything for the team. We want to win all three games. I can play in the middle or on either side – it doesn’t bother me. You have to be versatile. “I’ve worked a lot on my defensive qualities. It’s important when I’m playing out wide. We want to score early on Saturday – it’s important to make a good start,” said Kadewere.