The Herald LOS ANGELES. – Canadian singer-songwriter The Weeknd won big at the Billboard Music Awards that took place at Los Angeles, Sunday night. He won a total of 10 awards from 16 nominations. While the Korean boy band sensation BTS won all categories nominated for and Puerto Rican rapper Bad Bunny also won multiple awards. Rapper Drake was named the artiste of the decade. He accepted the award with his 3-year-old son. Singer-songwriter Pink received the Icon Award and was joined onstage by her nine-year-old daughter. The Weeknd was awarded as the top male artiste, top radio songs artist, top R&B artist and top R&B male artiste. His album, “After Hours” was named top R&B album and his single “Blinding Lights” as titled as the top radio song and top R&B song. He also performed his song “Save Your Tears” in the parking lot, later in the show. Bad Bunny was named Top Latin artiste and also won top Latin male artiste, top Latin song and top Latin album. BTS won multiple awards including top duo/group, top song sales artiste and top social artiste. Country music singer Gabby Barrett bagged three awards — Top Country Female Artiste, Top Collaboration and Top Country Song. She gave an emotional speech while accepting the award. “I’m gonna try to keep together, as best I can,” she said according to ET Online. She laughed as she held back tears. “I wasn’t supposed to mess up my makeup, so I gotta play it cool now. This means so much to me. I’ve been performing for 10 years, really hard . . . we’ve worked so hard to get here,” she added. Singer Machine Gun Kelly won the Top Rock Artiste awards. According to Hollywood Reporter, he said: “First big stage I’ve been invited to accept an award on. “I just want to say to the dreamers who are going to be tested by reality he way I was. Suspend logic and invite magic. If five years or 10 years or 12 years would have been too long waiting for this moment, then I wouldn’t be having this moment. So just show the universe that it can’t take a dream from you.” Singer Morgan Wallen also won three awards, for top country album, top country artist and top country male artistse. The other winners included Taylor Swift, who won the top female artiste and top Billboard 200 artiste. Kanye West won the top gospel artiste award and top gospel song. Lady Gaga was named the top dance/electronic artiste and also bagged the award for top dance/electronic album, Carrie Underwood won the award for top Christian album. — IOLNEWS