The Herald Sport Reporter THE build-up to the rescheduled Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games has seen the International Olympic Committee introduce the landmark Olympic Virtual Series to inspire and mobilise virtual sport, esports and gaming enthusiasts, from across the world. According to the Olympics website, the new series is aimed at mobilising virtual sport, esports, and gaming enthusiasts all around the world in order to reach new Olympic audiences. This is also meant to encourage the development of physical, and non-physical forms of sports, in line with the recommendations of the IOC’s Olympic Agenda 2020+25. The first Olympic-licensed event for physical, and non-physical virtual sports that got underway on May 13, is running through to June 23 with baseball, cycling, rowing, sailing and motor sport events. The International Olympic Committee are partnering with the five International Sports Federations, and game publishers, to produce the Olympic Virtual Series, the first-ever licensed events for physical, and non-physical, virtual sports. The OVS creates a stage to connect the physical sporting world, with the virtual and simulation sports gaming community, providing an opportunity to engage with the Olympic Movement. Each OVS event will attempt to maximise online mass participation and prioritise inclusivity. The mass-participation series allows participants, around the world, to compete from home, or their training facilities, in order to generate excitement in the build-up to the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020. IOC president, Thomas Bach, said the OVS will attempt to grow engagement, with new audiences, in the field of virtual sports. “The Olympic Virtual Series is a new, unique Olympic digital experience that aims to grow direct engagement with new audiences in the field of virtual sports. “Its conception is in line with the Olympic Agenda 2020+5 and the IOC’s digital strategy. “It encourages sports participation and promotes Olympic values with a special focus on youth,” said Bach. The IOC are looking at expanding their activities to engage fans, the virtual sports community, players and partners through building a bridge between virtual and traditional sports.