The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter DURING his last days, Butler Masango braved the pain and conducted football training sessions seated at the back of his car in Johannesburg, South Africa. This was a huge testament of his commitment, to the development of the game, he dearly loved. Masango died in a Johannesburg hospital this week after a three-year battle with heart complications. He was 47. He will be buried at his family home in Chiweshe tomorrow. Speaking at the late midfielder’s memorial service held at the AFM Church in Kempton Park, Johannesburg, on Thursday evening, ex-teammate and close friend Elasto Lungu Kapowezha, gave a moving speech. “We are shut out of the game but we have so much to offer,’’ he said. “He (Butler) offered much alone, with little resources. Sometimes we don’t do these things for money, no. “It’s just the passion we have as former football players. “Sometimes, you hope that the powers that-be would hear our voice, and give us a chance to work with them, so that we contribute, in our own way, with our gifts. “As for Butler, he soldiered on, I would say he died with his boots on, in the battlefield. “If you had a chance to see him, in his last days, he was seated in his car, directing the coaching from the seat of his car, unable to go onto the pitch. “Those things are not done by someone who is angling for money. It’s something that can only be done by someone driven by a deep passion for the game.’’ He said their friendship always evolved around the game. “Ever since I met Butler, our friendship has always been about football,’’ said Kapowezha. “Recently, I was joking with a friend that it’s difficult for footballers, football people always remain football people at heart. “Even when we go to bed, we can’t wear pyjamas. The football regalia is our pyjamas. “When we visited Butler in hospital he was always wearing his gear. I wasn’t surprised, although sometimes the system wants to throw us away from the game. “But, we remain football people. It’s a God-given gift. Unfortunately, it’s not utilised, especially in our times, when we have retired.’’ During his playing days, Masango, who was a gifted midfielder, played for CAPS United, Blackpool, Black Aces and Rufaro Rovers in the local Premier League in the 1990s. He was part of the Young Warriors side that came within touching distance of qualifying for the ‘96 Olympic Games, only to be denied by the star-studded Nigerian side that had the likes of Nwankwo Kanu and Austin “Jay Jay” Okocha. The Nigerians went on to win the Olympics title in Atlanta. The Zimbabwe team also won a silver medal during the 1995 All-Africa Games in Harare. Masango hung his boots, at the turn of the millennium, and gave his life to grassroots development. But, due to illness, it was getting difficult, for him to follow his passion so much that he would brave the pain, and made sure he fulfilled his mission. from the back of his car. Vusi Laher, who played with Masango at Rufaro Rovers under the late coach John Nyamasoka, said they were good companions, during their playing days. They also played together in the national Under-20 and Under-23 teams. “He was a close friend of mine. I still have memories of him when we played together at Rufaro Rovers, a dependable midfielder-cum-striker, skillful and full of jokes. “He used to make us laugh every time on the way to games imitating the late (coach) John Nyamasoka. “He was a friend of everyone in the team. “We later got together as well, in the great Under-23 team at the All-Africa Games and Atlanta ’96 Olympic qualifiers. “He really had a good game against Nigeria. We will miss him a lot,” said Laher, who was the captain of the national Under-23 side. Another ex-teammate, Gilbert Mushangazhike, said he was shocked by his colleague’s death. “I wish l could rewind the hands of time and bring back a great brother of mine,’’ he said. “l sit and remember all the things we spoke about, all the things we made jokes of and still cannot believe you left us,” said Mushangazhike. Condolences continued to pour in with UK-based Zimbabwe football coach, Phillip Zulu and Bernd Wulffen of Germany, who both worked with Masango in identifying players for the European market, contributing US$140 towards the funeral expenses. This was in addition to US$467.32 that was donated to the family by a group of CAPS legends and Zimbabwe legends and friends based in England. Masango’s body is expected to be flown to Harare today. Another memorial service is expected be held in Harare before the funeral procession heads to Chiweshe, his rural home at Mupandanyama village, for burial tomorrow. Masango is survived by his wife Nyarai Pemba and six-year-old daughter Gladys. He also had two other children from his previous marriage — Chido and Tino.