The Herald Stephen Chidhau
Masters in Public Administration, University of Zimbabwe Peace is when everyone lives in safety, without fear or threat of violence. Young people in our communities have a vital role to play in peace-building. They have the drive to work towards the realisation of peace and determine important roles in the resolution of conflicts within their communities. Thus erecting their ability as peace-building players. Even against tremendous challenges, youth are actively engaging in their communities, and are making positive contributions to peace. Youth as actors are the only capable force to implement peace agreements. In December 2015, the United Nations Security Council adopted UNSCR 2250 on Youth, Peace and Security. The resolution was the first to recognise the important role young people can play in preventing conflicts, and sustaining peace. These are some of the findings on how the youths can contribute in peace-building in our community. Create space for youth to engage in decision making processes Many youth feel left out from community procedures, and from making significant contributions. It is vital that community leaders make nurtured obligations to rebuild the young people’s confidence and enthusiasm in the community. This will build a broader base of citizen participation and creates a stronger, more inclusive and peaceful community. Creating space for the young can improve attitudes towards understanding about young people and creates a greater awareness of youth issues in an organisation. We have few opportunities as youth to act in the community, let alone take part in the peace processes. Support education and capacity-building for peace Youth will be part of the future local development and infer important roles in the in peacebulding and resolution of conflicts in their societies. It is therefore pertinent to equip them as peace-building actors so as to strengthen their democratic governance and help them solve problems from grassroots level. Access to education is fundamental for facilitating youth’s positive engagement in peace. Youth suggested specific and practical ways this could be realised, including reforms to civic education, and the introduction of peace education. Social Media can be used as a platform to promote peace and tolerance and also to monitor and discourage hate speech. Stimulate community discussions and dialogues Scepticism, conceptions, and predispositions can be undertaken by initiatives programmes, such as exchanges, which encourage consecutive dialogue and engagement between youth from different communities. Drawing Youths from different sections of the communities will create an opportunity for them to exchange information and perspectives and developing solutions to issues of interests in the community for peace to prevail. With this being done in our community it will a sense of belonging and a commitment to helping each other demonstrate unconditional love for each other and promoting peace among the youth from grassroots level. 