The Herald Tinashe Nyamushanya
Youth Interactive Writer
Growing up in Zimbabwe, we always knew of the Africa Day but the history behind this prehistoric day might be little known to youths. As for me I consider the day as a day that signifies the unity in Africa across all cultures and the will power of our forefathers. It is a time to reflect on our objectives as African member states of not only where we came from but where we are going in terms of development and unity in the African continent after colonization. To better understand the Africa Day and its importance to us as youths it is vital to know the real Pan-African thus being proud of being an African just the Africa day came to be. Flash back after the World War II inspired the process decolonizing efforts from African countries as the oppressed countries sought more political rights and independence and thus this saw Ghana becoming the first country in Southern Africa to gain independence from colonial rule with Kwame Nkrumah as their leader. The independence of Ghana their fore gave inspiration to other African member states to stand up against their colonial rulers. Thereafter a year Ghana convened the first Independent African States Conference. The first member states to attend this conference were Ethiopia, Libya, Egypt, Liberia, Sudan, Tunisia and Morocco, not forgetting the representatives of the national liberation front of Algeria and the union of Cameroonian peoples. This conference served as a clear message to the colonialists that Africa was in the process of being liberated and this also served as a direct rejection to the colonial domination on the continent with this being the first conference of freed African states on the continent. With these celebrations looming it is important to note that these Africa day celebrations have us as youths at heart because to get the Africa we want , we as the youths have to come together to build a power house continent with new and innovative ideas. This also means that for the African continent to reach its full potential we have to infuse our cultures to best suite our needs because in order to succeed in this competitive arena we have to first embrace our identity and only then and only then when there is oneness that we can support each other or push other to succeed in the various fields we are in. Recent trends of violence between us Africans within and beyond our borders because of tribe and blame for our economic woes instead of uniting for a common goal is creating cracks in our communities and interactions. As we commemorate the Africa day celebrations we as the youths need to acknowledge that no matter where we are from we have the same heritage to preserve and that heritage is what binds us together as communities. Not only do we celebrate how far we’ve come as Africans from being colonized and oppressed but at the same time this time is for reflection on how far we have still to go as a continent to reach the standards of a fully united and decolonised continent. Together we have the potential to create a future for our children right here in the land of their fore fathers without the help of other countries and this is evident by the social media platforms where some of the suggestions we give to the problems which are presented which affect us as an economy, what we need is implementation of those ideas together. Across Europe we have youths working and making a living abroad because of supposedly the fewer opportunities in Africa and at the same time we have youths working hard to improve their countries of origin, this day should serve as a calling to all youths to show and have a patriotic spirit. We are the leaders of our economies and we shouldn’t wait to be given opportunities but instead seize the opportunities that present themselves in our economies, we have to take the destiny of Africa into our own hands. We have to just have to accept the challenges that we have as of now as an opportunity to face and tackle the current challenges in order to create a future for our generations. Remember Africa day isn’t just about the unity of African countries but it is also about the unity of each and every individual. The reason why we have Africa and the countries found in it is because of the people that make up this beautiful continent. If there were no African human beings on the continent then there would’ve been no Africa or this day that we so hold onto. If we are not united and supportive to one another then there will be nothing like Africa Day. Let this day remind you as youth that if we’re not able to stand with each other then we will never make it in life.