The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Al Ahly coach, Pitso Mosimane, has attributed the cause of the mayhem in Atteridgeville on Saturday to the office of his former employers, Mamelodi Sundowns. Mosimane was the subject of insults as he arrived for the CAF Champions League match at Lucas Moripe Stadium. The Red Devils went on to win the game 3-1, on aggregate, to progress to the semi-finals of the competition at the expense of Mosimane’s former side. “These emails are not from supporters, but they come from the main office and there is only one person who can allow that, for the emails to come . . . emails from lawyers, how I left, why I left,” said Mosimane. “But, I will save it for my book. I will write a book. In fact, I have the book. I just kept it and said let bygones be bygones and move on, like in SAFA, I moved on.” Mosimane revealed that since he moved away from Sundowns to join Al Ahly, he has not enjoyed peace in Egypt. “I thought I left at peace and shook hands, but ever since I have been in Egypt, I have never had peace, and I didn’t want to talk,” he said. “But now there are situations like these. It’s fine. Later I will write a book.” SAFA have promised to bring the culprits to book. “These individuals have not only humiliated coach Pitso Mosimane, they have brought the name of the country into disrepute and as SAFA we will leave no stone unturned in identifying these individuals and handing out the harshest of penalties to the perpetrators,” SAFA CEO Tebogo Motlanthe, said. “We have requested for an urgent report from the security and police at the stadium and we will also await a report from the club. We are treating this matter with the urgency and seriousness it deserves. “We cannot tolerate this, Mosimane is our proud ambassador and what these people did needs to be condemned by all civilised society.” The Economic Freedom Fighters also condemned the unsavoury scenes and backed the two-time CAF Champions League-winning coach for his contributions to African football. “Sundowns has shown the highest form of self-hate horrendous to watch; worse Pitso Mosimane’s mother was dragged into a verbal assault that was obviously premeditated to bring Mosimane,” read part of the statement. “He built Sundowns and won all possible trophies‚ and if anything‚ Sundowns should be celebrating him.” — KickOff.com