The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter WARRIORS coach Zdravko Logarusic’s contract with ZIFA is now set to expire before the end of the 2022 World Cup qualifiers. The Croatian gaffer signed a two-year deal with the association, which ends in January next year, two months before the qualifiers are concluded. This means the association, and the coach, will need to sit down, and decide whether the Croat can be offered a short-term deal, if the Warriors are still in the running for a place in Qatar. Loga’s CAF A Licence, which has been a subject of controversy on the local scene, also expires next month. This was revealed by the issuing authority, the Croatia Football Federation, and this means the coach will have to work on getting his badge renewed. Without commitments, for his team next month, it could afford Loga a chance to work on his qualifications. The changes to the qualifying calendar, which were revealed exclusively by The Herald yesterday, have come with a number of complications. The World Cup qualifiers, which were set to resume next month, have now been moved to September and will end in March next year. A statement said the CAF Emergency Committee reached their decision, in consultation with FIFA, after taking into consideration the disruptions caused by coronavirus. “The CAF Emergency Committee, in consultation with FIFA, decided to postpone the CAF qualifiers for the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 that were due to be played in June 2021, after taking into consideration the current challenges caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, and the need to ensure the optimal playing conditions for all participating teams,’’ read a statement from CAF. “The qualifiers will now take place in the existing windows of September, October and November 2021, and March 2022. “CAF is reassessing its protocols and processes to enhance the implementation of Covid-related protocols, including specifically focusing on pre-match testing which had been the source of some challenges, in previous windows. “Full details on the updated match schedule will be provided in due course.’’ The postponement also comes against the background of a stadium crisis that has gripped the continent. CAF this week banned several stadiums which failed to meet minimum requirements and the situation could have seen some countries being forced to play their home matches on neutral venues. Warriors team manager, Wellington Mpandare, said the changes would come at a huge cost as they had already invested a lot, in logistical ground work. Zimbabwe were supposed to host South Africa, and then travel to Ethiopia, next month. It also means the squad, which Loga unveiled yesterday, is of no relevance and the coach will have to review it, ahead of the matches in September. “In terms of preparations, we were at an advanced stage where we had secured air tickets for all the invited players, and had done hotel bookings for the local camp, ahead of the first match against South Africa,’’ said Mpandare. “We were actually in the process of sending an advanced party to Ethiopia, to sort out the logistics, for the next game. “So, I can say, in terms of preparations, we were way ahead of our game. It’s something beyond us and, really, we cannot do anything about it. “I thought this was the best time to play these games, because most of the international leagues will have finished, and we didn’t anticipate many challenges in securing our foreign-based players. “I also thought we were going to have more time to train and travel during this window. “For example, we had, at least, the whole week before playing our first game and there was going to be a week between the two games. “Hopefully, this will also give CAF and the member countries more time to prepare for the games.’’ It wasn’t all gloom, though, for Mpandare. “I am also happy CAF have said they will look at the implementation of the Covid-19 protocols,’’ he said. “We have seen, in some interclub competitions, that some teams were actually weaponising the Covid-19 results, to weaken opponents. “So, we are happy that this area, at least, is going to be addressed. “We will also take the time to reflect on the upcoming COSAFA tournament (provisionally set for July) where the coaches hope to have a closer look at the fringe players.” The Warriors back-to-back clashes with Ghana have been pushed by a month to October. “The players are disappointed,” said Mpandare. “I have received messages from a number of them. “For example, Darikwa, who was among the players that could not make it for the last game because of the coronavirus travel restrictions in Europe, said he was more prepared to come this time around.” The French Ligue 1 duo of Marshall Munetsi and Tino Kadewere had been included in the squad, along with the England-based quartet of Marvelous Nakamba, Darikwa, Jordan Zemura, Admiral Muskwe. These players missed the Warriors’’ previous assignment in the 2021 AFCON Qualifiers because of Covid-19 travel restrictions in Europe. Former Everton defender, Brendan Galloway, who recently expressed desire to play for Zimbabwe, had also been drafted in for the matches. Warriors squad Goalkeepers Ariel Sibanda (Highlanders), Martin Mapisa (Zamora CF) Talbert Shumba (Nkana) Defenders Alec Mudimu (Ankaraspor), Divine Lunga (Lamontville Golden Arrows), Tendayi Darikwa (Wigan Athletic), Teenage Hadebe (Yeni Malatyaspor), Jimmy Dzingai (Nkana), Jordan Zemura (AFC Bournemouth), Onismor Bhasera (SuperSport United), Takudzwa Chimwemwe (Nkana), Brendan Galloway (Luton Town), Carlos Mavhurume (CAPS United) Midfielders Marshall Munetsi (Stade de Reims), Butholezwe Ncube (Amazulu), Ovidy Karuru (Black Leopards), Marvelous Nakamba (Aston Villa), Kudakwashe Mahachi (SuperSport United), Knowledge Musona (KAS Eupen), Khama Billiat (Kaizer Chiefs), Perfect Chikwende (Simba SC), Thabani Kamusoko (Zesco United), King Nadolo (Dynamos), Tafadzwa Rusike (Zesco United) Strikers Tinotenda Kadewere (Lyon), David Moyo (Hamilton Academical), Prince Dube (Azam), Admiral Muskwe (Wycombe Wanderers), Knox Mutizwa (Lamontville Golden Arrows), Terrence Dzvukamanja (Orlando Pirates)