The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter Afro-fusion singer Tia has bounced back onto the mainstream music scene with an Afro-beat track titled “Africa” featuring Ghanaian singers, as she seeks to tap into the West African market. The song features UJeanAllDay and Bwoy Tab, who also produced the track. “This is the first single from my upcoming Extended Play and expect to hear different vibe and collaborations,” said Tia. “On Africa, which coincided with Africa Day celebrations, I featured two Ghanaians. “Of course, the visuals will be dropping soon, but first we are dropping singles. We want to create a lot of hype around the new sound which I hope will definitely create that hunger for my music since I had not put an album out in years.” Tia said the EP, which is yet to be named, will be out anytime soon. On the song, Bwoy Tab raps over a lingering Afro-beat, while Tia laces her vocals with much gusto just the way her fans love her music. The track is bouncy, danceable and of course compelling and the cherry on top was the Shona lyrics as she talks about unity of purpose. The good thing about Tia though is that she did not only experiment with Afro-beat, but she also maintained her signature style and not attempt to sing in pidgin English as West African artists are popularly known for. That originality is what makes her craft uniquely Zimbabwean because she identifies with her roots which augurs well with the theme of the song Africa. The 35-year-old star is destined to shake the music scene with the track which comes after her long absence from the mainstream music scene. Tia made her big break on the music scene with Boy You Got To Know, then she was only 17 years old. She has evolved over the years, but has maintained her style. Last year, she dropped her EP which critics described as mature and quality sound that has a crossover appeal for audiences beyond borders. Besides, the much-anticipated EP, Tia also announced the launch of her new charity project “I Rise Education Foundation” which has so far gotten a stamp of approval from big corporates.