The Herald Shepherd Chimururi-Interactive Youth Correspondent Once in a while there is always a certain product or standard way of doing things that will be dominant in every field whether its music, gospel, art, politics, sport, marketing, automobiles and communication. Some call it the trending fashion or simply the in thing, but sometimes it becomes the new normal. This is also true in education. The current global trends in education are not only being influenced but are actually dependent on technology. EdTech the acronym for Educational Technology is the trending term. This is a system that deliverers educational content to learners through technological gadgets such as or smartphones, laptops, computers and tablets. There is an urgent need for our local educators to be abreast with latest global digital content delivery methods. All stakeholders in the education sector, the Government, donor community, teachers, parents and businesses among others, come together and implement steps to revolutionise education that still remains stuck in the age of talk and chalk. Failure to adapt will see us remain the only citizens in the world of textbooks, exercise books, blackboards and chalks, classrooms, benches, paper charts, etc. Embracing EdTech devices increases not only accessibility and convenience of education but also changes the learning behaviors and learners’ desires for learning there by boosting retention and pass rates. According to the Association for Educational Communications and Technology has defined EdTech as “facilitating learning and improving performance by creating, using, and managing appropriate technological processes and resources.” On the other hand, educators who actually use EdTech have a much simpler definition of the term. They say that it is a concept of transforming traditional book teaching and learning to digital form. For them, the main difference lies in the way knowledge is delivered to make teaching more effective. The past three years have been dominated by Big Data, Machine Learning, and the Internet of Things (IoT), Video Assisted Learning, Block Chain Technology, Artificial Technology, Learning Analytics, immersive learning with VR and AR and Social Media learning as the biggest educational technology trends. This is because distance learning enabled and enforced by the Covid-19 pandemic has drastically changed the way teachers teach and students learn. Both learners and facilitators now have to get used to distance learning via digital platforms due to the need for social distancing. Many EdTech trends are being influenced by the desire to improve on connectivity, versatility, and student-centered learning. The need to cater for different learning styles of students to achieve in higher learning outcomes is also key. The latest most captivating EdTech invention is Augmented reality (AR) that adds digital elements to a live view often by using the camera on a smartphone. Examples of augmented reality experiences include Snapchat lenses.  Related to that is the Virtual reality (VR) technology that implies a complete immersion experience that shuts out the physical world.  Using VR devices such as HTC Vive or Google Cardboard, users can be transported into a number of real-world and imagined environments. The first AR technology was developed in 1968 at Harvard when computer scientist Ivan Sutherland (named the “father of computer graphics”) created an AR head-mounted display system. In the following decades, lab universities and companies, further advanced AR for wearables and digital displays. Another EdTech gadget that still fascinate students is an interactive smart board, also known as an electronic whiteboard. This amazing tech classroom tool allows images from a computer screen to be displayed onto a classroom board using a digital projector. The teacher or a student can “interact” with the images directly on the screen using a tool or even a finger. This is the tool mostly used in TV educational programmes. An interactive whiteboard (IWB), also known as interactive board or smart board, is a large interactive display board in the form factor of a whiteboard. It can either be a stand alone touchscreen computer used independently to perform tasks and operations. The first interactive whiteboards were designed and manufactured for use in the office. They were developed by PARC around 1990. This board was used in small group meetings and round-tables but now they are used in a variety of settings, including classrooms at all levels of education, in corporate board rooms and work groups, in training rooms for professional  sports coaching, in broadcasting studios and others.