The Herald Tawanda Musarurwa OVER 20 companies walked away with different accolades at the Mashonaland West Environment, Responsible Business & Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Awards that were held in Kariba recently. The Responsible Business Awards, which ran under the theme: Celebrating Sustainability Excellence towards achieving vision 2030, was organised by Corporate Social Responsibility Network Zimbabwe (CSRNZ). The awards were given to companies that are positively impacting on stakeholders, the lives of communities in which they operate as well as the environments in which they operate in the Mashonaland West Province. Addressing delegates at the event, Minister of State for Provincial Affairs and Devolution Mary Mliswa commended businesses in the province for being proactive around CSR issues. “As Government we encourage partnerships and stakeholder participation. The partnership between EMA and CSR Network is much appreciated. EMA is not only looking into environmental management through legislative punitive provisions for offenders, but also the positive contribution of responsible business players. “Hence, the nexus of environmental stewardship and corporate social responsibility. “I see my portfolio as the Minister of State playing a significant role in respect of enforcing compliance with the legislative and regulatory structure of the business sector. I am, however, elated that the business community has not waited for Government to enact corporate social responsibility legislation but has taken it upon itself to be responsible corporate citizens.” CSRNZ chairperson Lucy Marowa said businesses should be bound by one common goal of changing the fortunes of vulnerable communities. “We want Zimbabwe to be recognised in the region and internationally for its CSR excellence and the leadership position that our businesses take in contributing to a better society.” Some of the companies that walked away with awards at the event include: Caribbea Bay, Rio Zimbabwe, Swift, World Vision, Venice Mine, Patsaka Trust, NSSA Mashonaland West, Carbon Green Africa, AFRI-HYPE Parks & Wild Life, Pan African Resources, NetOne, Great Dyke Investments, Chenai Projects, Lake Harvest, Zimparks, and Nyaradzo Group. CSRNZ executive director Willard Razawo weighed in challenging companies that CSR is more than a one-off set of initiatives or a glossy report but it is about the purpose of the business”. He added that as a country we need to culture a strong tradition of community involvement regardless of the size of our businesses.