The Herald Talent Bope Herald Reporter THE Government has launched television lessons with the thrust of improving access to education following disruptions caused by Covid-19 related challenges. The initiative comes at a time children are going to school on a limited number of days. TV lessons will include sign language to promote inclusiveness since the previously launched radio lessons were not benefiting those with listening impairment. The lessons are part of the catch up strategy being used by teachers in the classroom from Early Childhood Development (ECD) to Form Four. Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services Minister Monica Mutsvangwa launched the lessons saying they came on the back of the on-going radio lessons started in June last year and has seen a total of 1 670 broadcasts. President Mnangagwa recently launched the National Development Strategy 1 (NDS1) whose strategies amongst others include adopting innovative technologies that support effective instruction and blended learning as well as alternative learning approaches from ECD upwards. TV lessons will come with modules, workbooks, podcasts and digital content on various platforms. Minister Mutsvangwa said Covid-19 brought a myriad of challenges which crippled the education sector. She lauded the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education, in partnership with UNICEF, for facilitating President Mnangagwa’s vision in the education sector. She said the programme was in line with the Sustainable Development Goal number 4 of the 2030 Agenda. “Covid-19 has caused untold suffering amongst our learners in terms of school attendance. To this end, blended teaching and learning has become imperative to promote continuity of learning during and after the Covid-19 induced school closures. “The Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education in partnership with UNICEF have since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, been working on ensuring that all children continue with their education despite the closing of schools and subsequent phased opening,” said Sen Mutsvangwa. “The partners first developed radio lessons last year in June, which the Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation then began running across its radio stations. I applaud the ZBC for playing such a pivotal role in bringing lessons closer to the learners as part of school’s adaptation to the new normal,” said Minister Mutsvangwa. “The education lessons are part of the efforts by all the partners involved to support Government’s efforts in achieving SDG number 4 of the 2030 Agenda which aims to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all by 2030.” Minister Mutsvangwa said her Ministry was ready to cooperate and partner with stakeholders to ensure that children received quality education. Speaking at the same occasion Primary and Secondary Education Deputy Minister Edgar Moyo said the launch came at a time Government was focusing on improving the quality of education through e-learning initiatives. Deputy Minister Moyo said those who could not access the lessons on TV would benefit from the print media as some areas did not have access to signal. “This launch has come at a time when my Ministry has made e-learning a key ingredient to improve the quality of education. The Covid-19 pandemic has forced us to re-engineer education and make learning possible everywhere anytime hence television broadcasting has become one of the key alternative learning strategies,” he said. “Those who cannot access television lessons can get the same lessons through radio and print media. The Ministry is cognisant of the fact that not all parts of the nation have access to television and radio because of challenges on bandwidth and strength of radio signal. “I am however pleased to note that my counterpart Cde Mutsvangwa is seized with this matter and is working work out a solution so that no learner will be left behind with educational technology,” he said.