The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter NATIONAL Athletics Association of Zimbabwe director, Lisimati Phakamile, has challenged the 4x100m relay team to produce better results at the World Relays that get underway today in Poland. The meet ends tomorrow and Zimbabwe are among the countries competing at Silesian Stadium, in Chorzow. The team is made up of Itayi Vambe, Ngoni Makusha, Dickson Kamungeremu, Makanaka Charamba and Rodwell Ndlovu. Makusha, Vambe, Kamungeremu, and Tatenda Tsumba made up the team that competed at the 2019 World Relays in Yokohama, Japan. However, Tsumba could not make it for this edition. Phakamile, who is with the team in Poland, admitted the absence of Tsumba will be felt. “His absence will be felt but I think we have got equally good replacements,’’ he said. “We are hoping that the athletes that we have in the team will do a good job for us and will actually perform well. “I am hopeful that our team is going to do well in the absence of all the athletes we had invited, including Tatenda.” The top eight teams from this competition qualify for the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games. The meet is also serving as a qualifier for next year’s World Athletics Championships to be staged in the United States. “Our team has got an equal chance, like any other team, participating at these competitions,’’ said Phakamile. “It’s only up to our strength mentally, and our physical form, that we can decide our fate. “If our team pushes very hard, we have actually a very good chance to run well and qualify for the next stage, or the next international competition. “I am expecting these guys to actually enjoy the competition and run very good times in Poland.’’ The athletes have had some competition, with some posting their season’s best times, in their individual events, building up to the world meet. They have competed in various competitions in Zimbabwe, South Africa and Zambia. “From my assessment as the coach, now that we have got to the World Championship stage, I think the team is ready mentally,’’ he said. “Think the team is ready, as far as motivation, is concerned. “All the athletes that are in the team have done, at least, three competitions, three competitive races this year, at least, that’s the minimum. “I think if we are to compare with other nations, we are all at the same level.’’ Makusha is also hoping to do well. “The expectation is, obviously, to make it to the final, which we didn’t manage to do last time, so we are going to push for that. “Yes, we have lots of experience in the team, and we know how to handle the pressure and I believe we can achieve our goal. “We are really taking this seriously. It’s a huge opportunity for us as a team.’’