The Herald Mukudzei Chingwere in Bulawayo Government is happy with the progress made at Ekusileni Medical Centre ahead of its proposed phased opening, starting with the Covid-19 treatment and isolation centre. The opening of the facility is in line with the Government’s quest to revamp the health services sector and guarantee universal coverage as a means to improve people’s lives. The medical institution is being prepared to start taking patients and Government has seconded health staff to augment infrastructural developments supported by Treasury as, well as donations of equipment by other stakeholders. “We are very happy with the progress done at the hospital and it’s almost ready to start taking patients,” said Deputy Minister of Health and Child Care Dr John Mangwiro. “What is left is a few administrative processes among other things but soon we expect it to be ready.”
In an earlier interview, Ekusileni Chief Nursing Officer, Sister Bekezela Ndubiwa, explained the progress, saying for the first phase they will start by admitting up to 15 Covid-19 positive patients. “We are almost ready, if we get equipment we are waiting for we can open anytime from now,” she said. “We are just waiting for equipment to start operating, we will start by admitting 15 patients and we will take it from there.” Asked about the nature of equipment which has halted the opening, Sister Ndubiwa said it was nothing major, just a few operational equipment for basic healthcare like thermometers, among other things.
She said things like human resources, oxygen points, bedding equipment, laundry facilities and the kitchen were all in place ahead of the proposed phased opening. “We have received 24 nurses, human resources assistant, instrument technician, and some from kitchen staff, all from Government,” she said. Most of the administration staff at the medical institution are secondment from the National Social Security Authority (NSSA).
President Mnangagwa is scheduled to officially open two medical facilities in Bulawayo tomorrow. The centres are the United Bulawayo Hospitals Covid-19 isolation and treatment centre and the Bulawayo Orthopaedic Hospital.