The Herald Robson Sharuko Senior Sports Reporter AT the age of 75, they completed a three-peat, winning the league championship three times on the trot, making a grand entrance into the new millennium and dancing on a beach of gold. Five years later, at the age of 80, they won the league championship, for the last time. Now, 15 years later, as the sign that indicates a century of existence starts to emerge on the horizon, Highlanders find themselves in yet another transition. The grand Old Lady of domestic football have a new leadership, desperate to make up for the time they lost, as they staggered in the darkness. And, they also have a new coach, Mandla “Lulu’’ Mpofu, who was not the man in charge, when Bosso ended their last competitive campaign, with champagne bottles being popped, after winning the Chibuku Super Cup. Ironically, it’s the same tournament, in which they are the holders, which will open the gates for the resumption of domestic football, this weekend, after more than a year of inactivity. “Highlanders has been returned to its owners,’’ Johnfat Sibanda, who beat Kenneth Mhlope to land the Bosso chairmanship, told our sister newspaper, Chronicle. “We now need to move on, and embrace each other, as a family. “For now, I would be lying to immediately say that Bosso will, indeed, win the championship until I see what has been happening but okukhona iBosso inqobile namhlanje. “I believe I won because I told people the truth, I said this is their team and it’s time now for them to get their team back. I, however, want to state clearly that today Bosso won and the election season is done and dusted.’’ But, amid all the promises, and the inevitable explosion of hope, the reality is that Bosso still find themselves trapped by the same challenges, which have derailed their evolution, into a genuine football superpower. They still don’t have the financial muscle they need, for them to regularly go toe-to-toe against the rich crop of challengers, especially in a marathon, like the league championship. It hasn’t been lost to the analysts that the last time Bosso captured significant silverware, when they beat Ngezi Platinum to win the Chibuku Super Cup, two years ago, they enjoyed the financial backing of one of the country’s biggest telecommunications companies. However, somewhere along the period of inactivity, NetOne withdrew their funding, with the company saying they now needed to divert their financial resources, to the national fight, against the pandemic. For all the sentimentality, which comes with the community-based ownership model, which sells the fantasy, to millions of their fans that they are owners of the club, the reality is that money matters. If it didn’t, it’s likely that the Pretty Prince, also known as Prince Dube, would have been lining up for Bosso this weekend, when they get their Chibuku Super Cup campaign underway. Instead, he finds himself playing for a modest Tanzanian side, Azam FC, which didn’t even exist, 15 years ago, when Highlanders last won the league championship. Azam FC were only founded on June 24, 2007, six months after Methembe Ndlovu and his troops won the league championship, with Bosso. However, the huge financial injection from the club owners, the industrial conglomerate Azam Bakhresa, which is headed by billionaire businessman, Said Salim Bakhresa, has transformed them into a club, which can lure Dube from Bosso. The irony of it all is that this conglomerate also has operations in Zimbabwe, Kenya, Uganda, Malawi, Mozambique, Zambia, Rwanda, Burundi and South Africa. Dube isn’t the only example, of what might have been for Highlanders, had they been blessed with deep financial pockets. Defence pillar, Peter Muduhwa is back, after an unsuccessful spell with Tanzanian side, Simba SC, but is not set to play in the Chibuku Super Cup, because of registration issues. Midfield star, Joel “Josta’’ Ngodzo, is also back at his boyhood club. But, just like Muduhwa, he is unlikely to play in the season-opening tournament, because of registration complications. Some Bosso fans will rightly suggest they didn’t get to see the best years of a man, who grew up within their ranks, with Josta, again lured by better financial rewards, promised elsewhere. That’s where he his finest hour, in the colours of CAPS United. That was just two years ago, when he was named the Soccer Star of the Year, an accolade which has eluded Bosso players for 19 years now, since Dazzy Kapenya lifted it, in 2002. That was the year Highlanders won the league championship, for the fourth straight year, to match the record, which their biggest rivals Dynamos, had set between 1980 and 1983. Bosso have the domestic game’s institutional bragging rights: The first African club to produce a European Cup winner. The first club, from the continent, to produce a player to feature in the English Premiership. The only Southern African club, whose productive nursery has played a part in sending four stars to the English Premiership. The first African visiting footballer to score a hat-trick, at Anfield, against Liverpool, in a league match. Bruce Grobbelaar, Peter Ndlovu, Benjani Mwaruwari and Marvelous Nakamba all passed through the Bosso ranks, at some stage of their careers, before making it into the English Premiership. But, that is now history and, even though it matters, the future is also important and, given their huge status, Highlanders need regular silverware. That is why their Chibuku Super Cup success story, the last time this tournament was played, was very important. Anniversaries have been kind for Bosso, in a way, because their three-peat success story was written in the year this giant football club turned 75. Their last championship was won, just five years later, in the year they turned 80. They are 95 now, the century looms on the horizon, a grand occasion, for this club and their huge community, which is measured in millions. And, also, their country, forever grateful, for the stars which passed through the Bosso structures. That’s why it’s important, for them, to start delivering on the silverware front.