The Herald Ms Gee It seems China is living by a different clock than the rest of the world. I spent the past few years in Europe and Africa, where life remains more or less the same in at least one or two years. But back at home, changes are happening so fast that even I find it difficult to stay up to date. One of the changes is the emergence of Chinese consumer brands. In my first year in Europe, my family and friends always looked forward to me bringing them European products when I visited home. Fountain pens, cutlery sets, shoes, shirts, and even cutting boards were all popular gifts. Once my mom happily carried home a huge Swiss pressure cooker on a trip to see me. But, soon the tides were shifting. The fashionable young began to show off their newly bought made-in-China gadgets and proudly wear Chinese brands. Where Nike’s lone swoosh and Addidas’ trefoil used to be dominant, now Chinese brands, such as Lining, Anta, Feiyue and Peacebird, are taking over. When I was in my 20s, wearing these brands were considered bad taste. My best girlfriend, a once Massimo Dutti supporter, has been converted into a JNBY believer. Under her influence, I also gladly bagged a few pieces from Broadcast, another Chinese fashion brand she recommended to me. Even more surprisingly, Chinese beauty products are making their way into the boudoir of Chinese middle-class ladies, who used to prefer Estée Lauder and Clarins for product safety and better effects on the skin. According to the 2020 Chinese Consumer Brands Report released by Aliresearch, eight out of ten products in a Chinese consumer’s online cart is made in China. A recent poll by Xinhua also shows 74 percent of the respondents often buy domestic products and more than 70  percent would recommend Chinese fashion brands. A report by Chinese retailer Suning also finds that at least seven out of the top ten best-selling fashion brands on the Chinese market are home-grown ones. Lately, this increasing preference for domestic brands has been further accentuated by the row over cotton, as some major foreign brands chose to boycott cotton from Xinjiang due to political reasons. Many Chinese consumers were deeply offended and decided to stand firmly with Chinese fabric. Politics aside, Chinese brands are enticing a larger following because they understand the Chinese consumers better. And the quality is improving too. Take kitchen ventilator for example. Stir-fry is the most common way of cooking in China, which produces more smoke than the western style of frying. This makes domestic ventilators the more suitable choice because they tend to ventilate better than foreign ones. Zimbabwe is carrying out its own campaign of Buy Zimbabwe, which I fully support. Buying domestic products gives us real independence and freedom. But it cannot be forced. Producers must deliver better quality, retailers must be on a constant lookout for competitive local suppliers, and the Government must provide financial and policy support. We must all act together so that our stores and shelves are populated more and more by the products of our own ingenuity and diligence.