The Herald Robson Sharuko
Senior Sports Editor
IT was a Super Sunday for the Magical Number 50 — from Marvelous Nakamba’s man-of-the-match show, handing Dean Smith, another big scalp, to Phil Mickelson defying Father Time. The Zimbabwe international midfielder appeared to reserve his best, for last, in his second season with Aston Villa, as he ran the show on Sunday. He provided the inspiration behind the Birmingham club’s 2-1 win over UEFA Champions League finalists, Chelsea. In a campaign, in which he has largely been reduced to a squad player, with Brazilian midfielder, Douglas Luiz, preferred for the holding role in midfield, there was even speculation Nakamba would be traded, during the off-season. However, two big performances, in the final two league matches, against Tottenham Hotspur and Chelsea, in which he started both matches, have thrust the Warriors star, back into the heart of this Villa team. His show against Chelsea was even special, coming in his 50th appearance for the Birmingham side, and on the day 10 000 Villa fans were allowed back into Villa Park, to watch them, for the first time, this season. He was duly named man-of-the-match and, after a season in which the narrative was about Nakamba being sold, things have changed. And, he is one of the players Smith is set to strengthen his side, around, for next season’s challenge, for a return to European football. Ironically, Smith is also 50, and has now stabilised Villa as a Premiership side, who now believe they can compete against any team, in the league, and also play in the European competitions. Their 7-2 thrashing of Liverpool at Villa Park, a game in which Nakamba also featured in, was probably the result of the English Premiership campaign. Somehow, it appears, Smith has been using Nakamba for his team’s tough matches, against the heavyweights, where the Villa manager believe his defence need more protection, from their holding midfielder. It’s something which has also been noted by Ashley Preece, the specialist Villa reporter for BirminghamLive, whose knowledge of the only club he covers, is huge. That was his conclusion when Nakamba was thrown into the starting XI, for the match against Arsenal, which Villa won 1-0, in February. “Smith deserves immense credit for his decision-making this season and nailed it once more on Saturday,’’ noted Preece. “He got his selection right from the off, with Marvelous Nakamba performing well while his substitutes were bang on the money. “I owe Nakamba a bit of an apology here, for dishing out a mediocre 6.5/10 in my player ratings in the immediate aftermath of Saturday’s sweet victory. “I was imploring the Zimbabwean to have a really good game, knowing he was harshly dropped after his previous start against Newcastle, however, the midfielder started tentatively and was desperate to impress. “What stuck out was the fact he dallied on the ball, got robbed by Thomas Partey and then fouled Saka for his yellow card. “Naka’ improved tenfold, after that, and won six tackles — more than anyone on the pitch. “Arsenal’s holding midfielders of Partey and Granit Xhaka, meanwhile, made one tackle between them. The duo only cost £85 million. “As for £11 million man Nakamba, it’s now three clean sheets from his three starts this season against Burnley, Newcastle and Arsenal which just underlines his importance to Smith and Villa. “The understated African is something different as well compared to others in the squad and was the perfect fit for Saturday’s battle with Arsenal.’’ On Sunday, Nakamba was given a 9 out of 10 rating, the best for any of the Villa players, by BirminghamLive, after a series of tough and key challenges. The statistics are impressive — an 80% pass accuracy, his loss of possession was the least, in the whole side, his interceptions were crucial, he won four ground duels and, as usual, he was impressive when breaking up play. Ironically, Nakamba was also one of Villa’s outstanding players, when they lost 1-2 to Chelsea at Stamford Bridge, when the Blues were then still under the guidance of Frank Lampard. “I thought Naka had a really good performance (against Chelsea), he broke things up and used the ball well,” Smith told the club’s website, back then. These are the same qualities Smith saw on Sunday, as the Zimbabwean dominated the midfield, and helped his side to an impressive victory. “It’s really pleasing, Aston Villa have had some terrible records against the likes of Liverpool and Chelsea in this league,’’ Smith told his club’s website. “We’ve done the double over Arsenal, beat Tottenham this week, beat Liverpool, so we can be proud of the progress we’re making. “I want more and I want more next season. I just thanked the boys for all their efforts this season and they can certainly be proud of themselves. It was a real tough one against a very, very good team, who for 25 minutes I had to check to see if they only had 11 players on the pitch. “Their passing, their movement was very good and it had to be a very good defensive display today. “To a man, they defended really well today. To walk away this week with a win against Tottenham away and Chelsea just shows how much we’re progressing as a club.” Maybe, it was a Super Sunday set for the Magical Number 50. After all, across the Atlantic, veteran American gofer, Phil Mickelson, made history on the same day as he became the oldest winner of a Major gold event, when he captured the 2021 US PGA Championship. The 50-year-old, who came into the tournament at Kiawah Island Gold Resort, in South Carolina, with five Major titles under his belt, was not given a chance, in a game which had not witnessed a winner, at this level, at such an age. Until Mickleson’s stunning two-stroke triumph, on Sunday, the oldest golfer to win a Major golf tournament was Julius Boros, at 48 years, four months, 18 days, when he captured the 1968 US PGA Championship. Before him, the oldest had been Tom Morris Snr, who was 46 years, three months, 10 days, when he won the British Open title, in 1867. The immortal Jack Nicklaus was 46 years, two months, 23 days, when he won the Masters, at Augusta National, in 1986. Only 29 golfers, aged 40 or older, have won a Major golf title, with Morris having been the first, when he won the British Open, in 1861, at the age of 40.