The Herald LONDON. — Humble Chelsea hero N’Golo Kante was mobbed by jubilant supporters as he made his way out of Stamford Bridge in his MINI on Wednesday night after helping the club reach the Champions League final. The Frenchman produced another sensational midfield performance in Chelsea’s 2-0 semi-final second-leg win over Real Madrid and was deservedly named man-of-the-match. Kante delivered another energetic, all-action display and showed off his quality in the final third, too, by unlocking the Real Madrid defence for both Chelsea goals. The Chelsea fans were desperate to show their adoration for their hero and waited in large numbers outside the players’ exit at Stamford Bridge. As Kante emerged, fans closed in on his white MINI Cooper and cheered as he drove slowly through the group of supporters. The Frenchman’s choice of vehicle is in stark contrast to the lavish and expensive supercars his team-mates all drive. MINI Coopers start from around £16 000, making them a completely different option to the Bentleys and Ferraris we have become accustomed to seeing Premier League stars in. One fan sprayed what appeared to be champagne on the bonnet of his car before Kante drove off as the supporters made their delight for the Frenchman known to him. The former Leicester midfielder was also impressive in the first leg of the semi-final tie, helping to keep Real’s midfield trio of Luka Modric, Casemiro and Toni Kroos under control. Kante has lifted the Premier League with both Leicester and Chelsea, and the World Cup with France, but Europe’s top club crown has so far avoided him. He has the chance to add the missing trophy to his collection on May 29 when Chelsea take on Manchester City in Istanbul. Speaking before the semi-final on Wednesday night, Chelsea boss Thomas Tuchel was full of praise for Kante’s contribution. Kante’s tireless performances have had Tuchel purring ever since the German walked through the Stamford Bridge door. The ex-Paris Saint-Germain manager believes Kante’s workload represents that of two players, and that he has produced his finest form in the last few months. “The guy is a top guy, and he is the guy you need to win trophies, obviously, that’s why we’re so, so happy he’s here,’’ Tuchel said this week. “I was fighting for this player and dreaming about this player in any club I was coaching. And now he’s my player. “He’s won every trophy except for the Champions League, hopefully he will do everything to get this trophy. “For me he’s an example, and an unbelievable input for any team in the world.’’ — Mailonline.