The Herald Craig Twist-Fashion Correspondent Happy month end!!! If you missed out on the Billboard Awards show last Sunday, well international acclaimed musician The Weekend bagged 10 gongs. What was more striking about him on that night, apart from the awards, was his outfit. For the longest time,The Weekend was now being well known for his red blazer, dark shades, black trousers, battered and bandaged face throughout 2020 and some said the new trademark was part of his album “After Hours” which he was marketing. At this year’s show he surprised many as he wore a black long overcoat by Bottega Veneta, white shirt, grey tie, black trousers and what looked like black low cut Dr Martens shoes. That look was more classier and even brought us closer to home during this cold winter season on what men should be wearing to keep them warm but chic at the same time. Winters can be very, very cold and nothing makes you feel more prepared that a heavy overcoat that you can throw over your outfit to keep you warm yet elegant simultaneously. An overcoat can be worn over a suit but obviously it has to be one or two sizes up to accommodate layering. Layering is the best way to curb the cold but again you do not want to look like you are wearing a space-suit, looking inflated to make you float, but rather you have to feel comfortable and be functional. An overcoat also goes well with a casual outfit or a hoodie inside, that is how versatile an overcoat is. If you are a suit guy all day everyday like me, a three piece suit will not do much to keep you warm but a light sweater or cardigan or a slightly thick cable knit crew neck will be the most ideal for layering. With this, any colour would add a bit of contrast, for example, a blue suit with a yellow pull-over or a grey suit with a black cardigan so that your outfit does not look like a school or work uniform, with all due respect to uniforms. Adding a cashmere or wool scarf to your outfit gives you a bit of flair and class, makes you stand out and above all keeps you warm on the neckline. The two veins that transport blood to the head have to be kept warm hence a scarf around your neck in cold winter seasons. If you are someone who doesn’t like to make a statement or maybe you like to keep it basic then you have to go with the basic colours like grey, blue or black. This could have been top of the list if the essentials were in the order of importance but nonetheless, what is a winter outfit without leather boots. Leather boots are the most ideal in bad weather, that extra three centimetres up your leg can go a long way to cushion you from the cold winter mornings and nights to and from work. Again, for formal wear, Chelsea boots are the ones. I am not going to lie, Chelsea boots still look good in summer too for both formal and casual wear so having them on your shoe rack is done for the whole year. Leather gloves, preferably called driving gloves, are a must have too. Imagine that cold winter morning when you sit in the car to drive to work, the steering is freezing cold and you have to hold that steering wheel for a good half an hour or so. Someone could argue and say some cars have heated steering wheels, of course I get it, but leather gloves are not only for driving even though they are called driving gloves but also for just wearing to keep your hands warm in a classy way unlike the “Bennie Sanders” thick woollen ones. In our Mr Rocca collection, we have leather gloves that are touch sensitive meaning you can unlock your phone or type a message without taking them off, which is quite handy. As a bonus, a turtleneck and beanie hat will do with any outfit from suits to jeans to tracksuits, very comfortable and a turtleneck can act as a substitute for a scarf. I hope you have prepared for the winter, don’t let the winter blues chill you out.