The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Handball Federation have pulled out of an invitational tournament scheduled for South Africa this month as they believe they will not be able to secure clearance to attend the event in time. The Abahlobo Handball tournament, organised by Western Cape Handball Association, will run from May 21 to 25 in Cape Town. Zimbabwe had been invited to take part and the national federation wanted to send the Under-21 men’s team that resumed periodic training camps last month as part of their vision 2024. For the coaches, it would have given them the chance to gauge the team’s strength and weaknesses in a competitive environment. However, ZHF secretary-general Eddison Chirowodza said they are no longer sending the team for the event. “It was just an invitational tournament we wanted to expose our team to a competition. So there were timelines that by such a date we should have affiliated, paid for accommodation and all that. “So basically with the timelines and delay in getting clearance here, we decided, it will not be wise to pay before we get clearance,” Chirowodza said. The Under-21 side had been scheduled to meet again this coming weekend in Chitungwiza for a camp ahead of their departure but they are now expected to resume their periodic camps end of this month. Despite the setback, the national federation is confident they will make up for the lost opportunity. “So going forward is we focus on other plans…Considering that we still have the opportunity to participate in other events and even organise friendlies for our teams it’s not a huge loss. Our team is still training and practising locally. “The IHF Trophy is still pending,” said Chirowodza. Zimbabwe were supposed to host the International Handball Federation Trophy Zone Six tournament last year in April before it was suspended because of the Covid-19 pandemic. ZHF then set provisional dates for December, 2020, but after a meeting with their regional counterparts as the situation remained uncertain, they agreed to move it to this year. However, it is still not certain if the regional tournament will go ahead this year.