The Herald Tadiwanashe Ryan Emmanuel Mavetera (17 years old) Upper six, otherwise known as Advanced Level, is a stage in one’s education that has a pivotal role in determining one’s future, the stage I am about to engage in. The intensity of difficulty, the level of concentration and focus required is great. To be exact I expect the advanced level to be extremely challenging, it says it in its name alone “advanced level”, one should not take the fact that upper six is called advanced level lightly. It’s a level which pushes students beyond ordinary knowledge to the realm of advanced learning this applied for me as well “A’ Level”, will push me to my limits and truly live up to its name ADVANCED LEVEL. I expect nothing less than difficult and complex content. My combination will comprise of the conventional Maths, Physics and Chemistry as well as Additional Maths, Computer Science, Accounting and Business Enterprise Skills. I know that this is an unconventional combination for advanced level, however I aspire to oppose normalcy and wish to go an extra mile since my life objectives require me to take a few extra miles in order to attain it. To study quantum mechanics and nuclear engineering, I should be an individual capable of handling the immense mental strain from studying it thus I am preparing my mind for the load. More importantly a few universities offer this course all of which are elite and foreign and demand a hefty price as tuition thus my only hope is to attain exceptional grades and get a merit based scholarship. Many have told me that the advanced level is not a stage that one should underestimate since it has no one that can tame it, one should act cautiously and make sure they devote proper attention to this                     level. Some individuals have told me that there is a high probability that I will not be able to handle the pressure and demands of the advanced level and that truly instils a sense of fear to anyone being told this. It is true for a boy my age there are many possible distractions which can arise such as peer pressure to engage in anti social behaviours such as drug and alcohol abuse even worse engaging in improper relationships before the appropriate age. I will use the formula to success which is reading the Bible first thing every morning, “Matthew 6:33” thus putting God first and ask Him to bless my efforts in order to succeed I know that if I work hard enough and that with prayer and Bible study, my efforts will not be in vain. I will be as disciplined and diligent as ever since I know the gravity of how important it is to pass my advanced level in order to attain a scholarship to one of the world renowned universities such as Massachusetts Institute of Technology. After finishing school I want to study Nuclear and Quantum Physics so that I will be able to start a business related to Quantum Technology. Tadiwanashe was featured in our last week’s edition of the Youth Interactive as he shared his secrets to success after obtaining 20 A’s on ordinary level. He learnt at Ruya Adventist High School in Mt Darwin of which he has started his advanced level at the same school.