The Herald BEIJING. – China’s effective containment of the Covid-19 pandemic and progress in vaccination have greatly boosted people’s enthusiasm for domestic travel during the May Day holiday lasting from Saturday to yesterday. Viewing the travel rush as a clear signal of the country’s economic recovery, especially a pick-up in consumers’ sentiment, international businesses are shifting to e-commerce to seek fortune in China’s online market, given that the coronavirus has brought overseas travel to a standstill. Passenger trips on Chinese railways hit a new single-day high on the first day of the International Workers’ Day holiday, with nearly 18.83 million trips recorded, up by 9,2 percent from the 2019 level. Experts and media outlets have called the travel boom a “definitely encouraging” sign of post-pandemic revival. Tommy Wu, a lead economist of British thinktank Oxford Economics, said, “domestic travel will likely recover to close to pre-pandemic levels during the Labour Day holiday, which is definitely encouraging.” “That said, should we see a strong positive outturn on consumer spending during the Labour Day holiday, it will be a very encouraging sign that household consumption recovery is probably back on track again,” Wu said. As a “record-breaking wave of Chinese tourists” are hitting the road for a May Day trip, the travel frenzy is “giving China’s economy a powerful short-term boost,” Reuters said in a recent report. That is “in stark contrast to the rest of the world where many countries are still struggling to bring the virus under control, let alone open up domestic or even international travel.” “Tickets for everything from domestic flights to theme parks are rapidly selling out in China ahead of its Labour Day holiday as the nation’s recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic gathers pace,” the Bloomberg News observed in a report last week. “China’s early success in tackling the pandemic has helped to underpin its economic rebound,” it said. “Its ability to contain sporadic outbreaks has given millions of people the confidence to stick to their domestic travel plans.” Though the five-day break offers a fillip for local economies hit by the health crisis, international retailers targeting Chinese tourists are becoming anxiety-ridden, as border restrictions between countries are undoing overseas travel and consequently tourism-related consumption. Therefore, some of them are shifting to online business to mitigate the impact. Aumake, an Australian online platform, has developed a social e-commerce marketplace connecting Asian influencers, buyers and sellers with Australian brands. Due to the challenges of the pandemic, Aumake has, like many forward-looking companies, transferred its focus to online business. Keong Chan, executive chairman of Aumake, said this shift managed to provide Australian brands with an effective channel to seamlessly promote, sell and deliver products to Chinese consumers via social media influencers. Among more than 20 000 registered active users on Aumake’s platform, 85 percent are from the Chinese mainland. Nowadays, Aumake is partnering with a social e-commerce team based in Hangzhou and converting end-consumers to small influencers as part of its marketing strategy. Several foreign brands have been active players on online platforms familiar to Chinese consumers. – Xinhua. 