The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter HARARE Amateur Swimming will wrap up their season this weekend with a Short Course Gala scheduled for Chisipite Senior School on Saturday and Sunday. It will be their last gala for the 2020/2021 season. Eighty-three swimmers drawn from Sharks, Otters, Pirates, Spartans, Highlands and Dorados are set to participate in the gala. It is also expected to feature seven swimmers from Bulawayo. Participants will compete in the 12-and-Under, 13 to 14 and 15-and-Over age-groups. After coming tops at the Junior Championships staged last month, Highlands will be hoping, their swimmers carry on with their dominance when they compete again this weekend. Pirates and Spartans, who had a close contest in the previous competition will also be out to conclude the season on a high note. Sharks coach Kathy Lobb said with most of their swimmers already on break, they are going to field just a few swimmers for the event. “We only have got four swimmers, we basically stopped for winter…it’s very cold, so we have just got a nominal presence. “They are on break for winter now, we hope to start again probably at the end of the month,” said Lobb. HAS public relations officer, Shingirai Mtetwa said they are pleased with the way things have gone considering the disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are looking forward to this weekend’s short course gala as it is our last event of the season. “Swimmers are very excited and raring to go. We are happy to have Bulawayo and Dorados swimmers on board to bring more competition. The gala should be exciting. “The season 2020/2021 was just different due to Covid, however, we managed to fulfil all our seeded galas. “We failed to have the Senior and Junior Nationals due to the second lockdown but we are grateful that we were able to hold our provincial championships and also to send a team to the South African National Junior Championships. “We made the best of the situation given the pandemic. We are satisfied with the way things have gone as our swimmers had the opportunity to swim, they were not idle” said Mtetwa. Competitions have been limited due to the Covid-19 pandemic and swimmers will be hoping for a better season when they return to competition later in the year.