The Herald Eddie Chikamhi
Senior Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWE batting coach, Stuart Matsikenyeri, believes the Chevrons can only improve their Test records if they get more opportunities to play. Matsikenyeri, who played eight Tests for Zimbabwe between 2003 and 2005, however, is excited by the opportunities that could come their way this year. “I think in the past we only played a couple of Test matches a year and, as we start the second Test (against Pakistan), it’s already the fourth test in the year,” said Matsikenyeri. Zimbabwe, on average, play two to three Test matches every year. On average, the big nations like Australia, England and New Zealand play around eight to 12 Test matches, every year. Bangladesh play six to seven Tests per year. Zimbabwe have so far featured in four Test matches this year. They recently played Test newcomers Afghanistan in Abu Dhabi, in a two-match series, which ended 1-1. “We have got potentially a few more coming up this year against Bangladesh and, maybe later on, against Afghanistan. “It’s looking a much better year than what we have had in the past. “That’s exactly what we need for the guys to continue to be exposed and to learn their trade out there. “It will happen more when we play than in practices,” said Matsikenyeri. The Bangladesh cricket team are scheduled to tour Zimbabwe in June and July to play two Tests, three One Day Internationals, and three Twenty20 Internationals. The ODI series will form part of the inaugural 2020–2023 ICC Cricket World Cup Super League. Bangladesh last toured Zimbabwe in April and May 2013. Matsikenyeri has confidence in the new crop of upcoming Test players who  include Kevin Kasuza, Tarisai Musakanda, Wesley Madhevere, Luke Jongwe, Wellington Masakadza, Donald Tiripano, and Blessing Muzarabani “We are fortunate to still have the services of Brendan Taylor, Sean Williams who is captaining the side and Regis Chakabva. “As long as we still have them for a couple of years it’s going to help our youngsters. “Those youngsters certainly have the talent, they have the skill but they need more game time and playing under the watch of these senior guys is going to be helpful,” said Matsikenyeri.