The Herald MAPUTO. — Survivors of an attack by the armed group known locally as “Al-Shabaab” in Mozambique’s Cabo Delgado told Amnesty International that white contractors were prioritised for evacuation ahead of Black locals, in disturbing testimony that points to blatant racism. An estimated 220 civilians sought refuge in the Amarula Palma Hotel in Palma, during an attack that started on 24 March. Of these, around 200 were black nationals, and about 20 were white contractors. In the days that followed, South African private military company Dyck Advisory Group (DAG) rescued some from the hotel. While the white contractors were prioritised to be airlifted to safety, the black nationals were left to fend for themselves. After the majority of the white contractors and a few well-off black nationals — among them the Administrator for Palma — were rescued, those left behind attempted to flee by ground convoy but were ambushed by “Al-Shabaab.” “Witnesses told us of racial discrimination in decisions about who to evacuate from the Amarula hotel,” said Deprose Muchena, Amnesty International’s Regional Director for East and Southern Africa. “These are alarming allegations that the rescue plan was racially segregated, with white contractors obviously receiving preferential treatment. “The total lack of co-ordination between the Mozambique security forces and Dyck Advisory Group resulted in evacuations that were racist, and must be thoroughly investigated.” The fighting in the port town of Palma followed a pattern similar to previous “Al-Shabaab” attacks investigated by Amnesty International: following the initial assault, the Mozambique security forces failed to protect civilians and fled, leaving DAG operatives to operate independently. Amnesty International interviewed 11 people who sought refuge in the Amarula hotel, including five who later survived the convoy attack. They all said that the hotel manager and DAG operatives, who were in charge of the rescue attempt, prioritised the safety of white contractors over local black people. Initially, survivors understood there was a plan to prioritise the helicopter evacuation of women, children, and people with disabilities. However, that plan was apparently abandoned in the days that followed. One survivor told Amnesty International: “We were about 220 people trapped there in the hotel — we (local black people) were the majority, and the whites were supposed to be about 20. After the rescue and escape, we were about 170 people still alive. Most of the whites were rescued by helicopters, before we left the hotel by car.” Another survivor said: “We didn’t want all white people to be rescued, because we knew that if all the whites left, we would be left there to die. We heard them talking about the plan to take all the whites and leave the blacks.” Several witnesses said the manager of the Amarula hotel took advantage of the chaotic situation to take his two German Shepherd dogs to safety via helicopter, leaving people behind. One survivor said: “If the dogs hadn’t gone, about two or three more people could have gone on the helicopter. That dismayed people because some women didn’t get in the helicopter because of the dogs.” The helicopters could only transport six people at a time, and made a total of four trips. “Terrified locals knew that the rescue of white people first would mean they were abandoned to face “Al-Shabaab” by themselves,” said Deprose Muchena. “The fact that the hotel manager chose to rescue his dogs instead of people is also extremely shocking, and further proof of the lack of respect for human life that has characterised the Cabo Delgado conflict.” In a meeting with Amnesty International on 7 May, the Mozambique Ministry of Defence said they could only speak about rescue missions that their own forces had conducted in Cabo Delgado, and that race was not a factor in their response. — AllAfrica.com