The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter WILFRED Mashaya’s contribution in martial arts continues to get recognition with Spain awarding him the Spartan Hall of Warriors Certificate of Appreciation. Mashaya has won several international awards and apart from competing, he also leads the Zim Ninja Academy that caters for all age-groups for those interested in martial arts. He has also been involved in voluntary work to promote martial arts and recently he partnered the Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation for free self-defence training sessions for women as part of Mother’s Day commemorations. The martial artist said the recognition is a motivation for him. “Actually being recognised by other countries like Spain, which is a country in another continent, it means what I am doing is being recognised internationally. “It actually works as a motivating tool to do more, for me to continue doing my best….They really encourage me through such kind of honour,” said Mashaya. The former Sportsperson of the Year believes there is more to achieve and making a difference through martial arts. “I really see myself achieving more in the future, personally and also achieving more in terms of the people that I am also passing my knowledge and talent to, whom I am actually training. “So I actually feel that there is more I can achieve as an individual for the nation and there is more that I can achieve as an instructor or as a coach through the training that I am giving others. “The secret behind is, firstly I believe in myself and I believe in God. I just tell myself that yes I can. “And also discipline in everything that one does in order to prosper, in order to go far, is important. You must have discipline, the dedication and commitment and perseverance because there are some challenges. “I am person who is hungry to achieve more and also to make sure that I leave a mark. So I always say I am a man on a mission to do the best for myself and for my nation,” said Mashaya. Last year his academy won 15 medals in a number of online competitions they took part in and they have continued to do well again this year picking more medals including the 14 they got in Budo Bushi Online World Championships.