The Herald MOSCOW. — China and Russia held a new round of strategic security consultations on Tuesday in Moscow, and during the frequent interactions between the two major powers in recent months, the world has showed a dangerous trend of disorder or tensions in some regions, including the Middle East, Eastern Europe, Central Asia and the Western Pacific, due to global strategic shift made by the US, Chinese analysts said that the recent change has been generally caused by the decline of US hegemony, and not only will US pressure and hostility push China and Russia to stand closer, the decline in Washington’s strength and influence in some regions will also make Beijing and Moscow consider how to figure out new regional order to stabilise the situation and protect their interests after the US pullout. Top Chinese diplomat Yang Jiechi and Russian Security Council secretary Nikolai Patrushev co-chaired the 16th round of strategic security consultations, which is a high-level meeting focusing on strategic cooperation in confronting both regional and global security and geopolitical threats. Yang, a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and director of the Office of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the CPC Central Committee, delivered a message from Chinese President Xi Jinping in a phone conference with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday, which reiterated the bilateral relationship between China and Russia. The Russian president echoed this message, hoping Yang transfers his greetings for Xi and two top leaders will maintain close communication. The two sides also discussed issues related to the China-Russia comprehensive strategic partnership, reiterating the importance of the Treaty of Good-Neighborliness and Friendly Cooperation between China and Russia and celebration of the 20th anniversary of the signing fo the treaty, in addition to a number of hot topics on global affairs. Although China and Russia have repeatedly expressed that they have no intention to challenge the US and their cooperation won’t target any third party, rising pressure from the US and its allies has always been a key topic on the table of China-Russia discussions. After Yang told US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan that the US is not qualified to “speak to China from a position of strength” at the Alaska “2+2” dialogue in March, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov also said in an interview that Russia won’t let the US or any other country speak with it “from the position of force”. The similar remarks made by China and Russia toward the US is a clear signal to the world that the US hegemony will no longer be tolerated, and the world order dominated by the US and its allies is unable to keep stability in many regions, and this kind of order is causing more tensions and conflicts, said Chinese experts. The US hasty pullout from Afghanistan is resulting in surging violent attacks in the country, and the Palestine-Israel conflict has caused heavy casualties but the US stance was blocking international mediation through the UN Security Council. These are all the signs that make China, Russia and other relevant countries worried due to the wavering “Pax Americana,” experts said. — Global Times