The Herald WASHINGTON. – Donald Trump’s Facebook account should not be reinstated, the social media giant’s oversight board said yesterday, barring an imminent return to the platform. However, the board has punted the final decision over Trump’s account back to Facebook itself, suggesting the platform make a decision in six months regarding what to do with Trump’s account and whether it will be permanently deleted. Facebook suspended Trump’s account after the Capitol attack of 6 January, when a mob of Trump supporters stormed Congress in an attempt to overturn the former president’s defeat by Joe Biden in the 2020 presidential election. Trump was initially suspended from Facebook and Instagram for 24 hours, as a result of two posts shared to the platform in which he appeared to praise the actions of the rioters. The company then extended the president’s ban “at least until the end of his time in office”. His account was suspended indefinitely pending the decision of the oversight board, a group of appointed academics and former politicians meant to operate independently of Facebook’s corporate leadership. The board assigned ultimate responsibility to the social media company regarding whether the account will be given a reinstatement date and said Facebook must complete its review of this matter within six months. It said Facebook failed to impose proper penalties against Trump for violating its policies. Facebook typically removes violating content from an account, imposing a time-bound period of suspension, or permanently disables the page and account. Trump’s account remains on Facebook with a number of older posts still live. “It was not appropriate for Facebook to impose the indeterminate and standardless penalty of indefinite suspension,” the oversight board said in a statement. “The board insists that Facebook review this matter to determine and justify a proportionate response that is consistent with the rules that are applied to other users of its platform.” The board defines its mission as “to promote free expression by making principled, independent decisions regarding content on Facebook and Instagram and by issuing recommendations on the relevant Facebook company content policy”. But critics have said Facebook should have made its own decisions rather than using the body. –The Guardian.