The Herald THE European football off-season break has hardly set in but the madness, which usually follows Knowledge Musona during this time, is already well and truly underway. And, for the umpteenth time, the Warriors skipper is being linked with a possible return to South Africa. The 31-year-old Smiling Assassin is back at his parent club, Anderlecht, after a successful loan stint at KAS Eupen. It’s very likely Musona could return to Eupen, on a permanent deal, after he transformed himself into one of the club’s key players, last season. However, the Spanish coach, Benat San Jose, who turned the Warriors skipper into one of the key players at the club, giving him a deeper role in midfield, will not part of the team, next season. “KAS Eupen announces that head coach, Beñat San José, will not continue with the Pandas next season,’’ the club said, in a statement, last month. “KAS Eupen had offered the Spanish coach to continue with the project, but Beñat has decided, after carefully consideration, that he prefers to look for a new challenge at this particular time in his managerial career. “KAS Eupen thanks Beñat and his staff for their dedication and good work in these two seasons with the club and wishes him great success in his future endeavors. “In a video message, Beñat San José thanked the management of the Aspire Academy and the club, as well as his sports and medical staff, for their support and great work. “Beñat San José also thanked the employees of KAS Eupen, the fans from the Panda family, his neighbours in Eupen and his players for their respect and dedication.’’ This has given rise to a flood of new reports of Musona possibly returning to complete his professional career in South Africa. “The future of former Kaizer Chiefs striker Knowledge Musona will become a subject of interest yet again with his loan deal at KAS Eupen having just come to an end,’’ KickOff.com reported yesterday. “Musona now has a year remaining on his contract, with Belgian Pro League side Anderlecht, will return to his parent club along with at least another dozen players that had been out on loan this past season. “However, with the Belgian giants unlikely to retain him as they work towards lifting their finances from the red, it opens potential options for the Zimbabwean talisman. “Musona turns 31 this year and a return to the PSL is dependent on any of the clubs that will be keen on him meeting his demands. “His annual package will bring him to the table of top earners if he is to return to South Africa, where he had two productive stints with Amakhosi as he reached double figures in two of the three seasons. “Chiefs and Sundowns have shown interest in the past and have shown they can afford to stretch their budgets for major signings, which is why they are understood to have players on all-inclusive packages of up to R10-million per annum. “The Warriors skipper has always made it clear that if he is to return to the PSL, he would prefer to play for Chiefs again, but Sundowns and Orlando Pirates can never entirely be ruled out.’’ Last year, his manager, Mike Makaab was forced to clear the situation, amid a flurry of reports, linking Musona to a return to South Africa. “At this point, there is a possibility of anything happening, provided it’s the right deal for him and he’s happy and his family is happy. He has a beautiful family and he considers them in everything he does,” Makaab said. “The important thing is, whatever deal we receive, Knowledge has to be the one that is happy with it, both financially and from a family point of view. “I think (South Africa) is a place where he would be comfortable but you cannot separate the financial side of this deal. He’s not a young player looking to make a name for himself. He’s in the prime of his career and takes great care of himself. “He has, at least, four of five years left at a really good level and therefore if Anderlecht wants his deal to happen, they are going to have to assist Knowledge in making this deal happen. He’s not asking to leave Anderlecht. They (Eupen) are in discussions with Anderlecht but the key to the whole thing is if they can afford Knowledge Musona, that’s the key. “Knowledge is not a youngster, he’s worked hard for where he is today. “If Anderlecht doesn’t want him then they have to make it attractive for him to leave.’’ In December 2018, Musona had to personally address the persistent reports, linking him with a return to Chiefs. “To all my lovely Kaizer Chiefs supporters, the rumour circulating on social media is not true,” the Zimbabwe captain said on Twitter. “I never said I will not come back, but time will tell. Thank you for the love you have shown me even if I left years ago. You deserve the best.’’ — Sports Reporter/KickOff.com