The Herald Bright Mandinyenya,18,
Upper Six at Chipindura High School
Time has a privileged present, only now is real. Yet there is no blinking, the fact that the slide is coming demands consciousness, it is impossible to become sure of anything other than death and taxes. It’s the inexorable certainty that will always eventuate and no escape from it is possible, well nigh to the event horizon. Though loathed, death is fate. It the common denominator, anchoring our life spans. The egregious fate will always exist and persist. Yet in any case, it is better to cherish life and get to live positively, even if you know the inevitable is coming. Even if you knew that you had thirty seconds to live, it is better to sigh and proclaim you will live longer than to sigh and sorrowfully say this is the end. The poorest way to face life is to face it with a pessimistic glare. Pessimism is well-nigh to sinking into the abyss of a Dark Age, made more sinister and perhaps more protracted, by the lights of perverted negativity and unnecessary despair. Pessimism is hands down, the most ignominious way of self sabotage. Yet life is the art of drawing without any eraser, but if you are to draw it wielding the pessimistic pencil, then you are going to need the eraser more often. Never lead life under the purview of deadly spores of negativity. Life is a meandering journey, always use positivity to manoeuvre it. It is said hope for the better and expect for the worst, but if hope for worse and expect the worst, even when you dance with the Grim Reaper, you will stumble on the dance floor. A person perilously driven by the pessimistic principles intertwined with its dismal perspectives, it goes with unquestioning acceptance, is the most vulnerable being that will drink poison hopefully to eliminate his enemies. It is folly and fatally to cherish such hopes, for they are the very odious apparatus that will make you more susceptible to the deadly spores of vanity, which are adrift in any realm where the destructive force of negativity prevails. The first and greatest commandment is: Never leave the podium of positivity! It is a thousand fold better to remain thirsty, than to drink from the cup of resent and negativity, to partially quench your thirst. Reality has it that: If you keep on saying things will go bad, you will always have greater chances of becoming a well versed prophet. Always know that you are neither at privilege nor at liberty to let your doubts mount the upper tier of your expectations’ hierarchy for it is the grotesque catalyst that will always dissolve any progress in failure. The prognosis of any survival under the purview of our doubts is but dismal. Our own doubts are the unscrupulous traitors that will always undermine our immense ability and advise us that we cannot do it, when our abilities would have afforded us a sounding breakthrough. If you are to look at the future with a glare full of dreadful anticipation then definitely you are to see failure in its most devastating form. For what you look at always determines what you see. You are inextricably bound to achieve what you perceive.