The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter VETERAN forward, Newman Sianchali, is expected to play his first competitive game for Dynamos today as they look to prop up their campaign in the Chibuku Super Cup. They take on Yadah at the National Sports Stadium. The Harare giants were toothless, in front of goal, in their opening match against Herentals last week. Sianchali, and seven other new signings, were not able to feature in that match because they had not been registered. “It’s normal in football for players to switch clubs and Newman has done that,” said coach Tonderai Ndiraya. “He is not the first one, I think we have had so many in the past. “He is an experienced player, one who is able to handle the pressure. Of course, we had more signings this year, not just Newman. “’We have quite a number, eight to be precise. Of the eight’, we have five experienced ones.’’ Utility man Godknows Murwira, midfielder Shadreck Nyahwa, goalkeeper Geofrey Chitsumba and youngsters Luke Musikiri and Bill Antonio have now been cleared. Midfielder Juan Mutudza was the only player yet to get his paperwork done. DeMbare’s strike force was one of their weakest areas last week with the trio of Tinashe Makanda, Jarrison Selemani and Tanaka Chidhobha impotent in the goalless draw. Yadah, who squandered a two-goal advantage in their first match against CAPS United, are also looking to get things right and get maximum points today. They have lost the core of their side, including players like Morris Musiyakuvi, Enoch Karembo, Sydney Linyama, Leeroy Mavhunga, Ralph Matema, Johannes Sibanda and Ariel Makopa. But they appear to have replacements in winger Prosper Kafelapanjila, Issa Sadiki, Fortune Bhinzi and goalscorer Tino Mutyembizi. “We have our playing philosophy and I think we will do well if we stick to it,’’ said coach, Genesis Mangombe. ‘’We have about 14-15 new players and I think the guys are doing quite well to fit into the team. ‘’Of course, we lost some very good individual talents but we don’t normally play as individuals. We thrive on team effort. “The truth of the matter is that these days there is no reason to fear the so-called big teams. The level of the game is the same. ‘’We are going to give our best and try to minimise the mistakes which cost us maximum points in our first game.’’ He said they are inspired by the sacrifices made by the club owner, Walter Magaya, to keep the team afloat during the trying times. “We play for the man of God, Prophet Walter Magaya. If you know him well, he is not a loser. ‘’He always strives to overcome in all situations so its befitting that as a club we should try and give him something to smile about.’’ Fixtures Today Bulawayo City vs Bulawayo Chiefs (Grp 2 – Barbourfields, 1100hrs) Black Rhinos vs Cranborne Bullets (Group 3 – Sakubva, 1300hrs) Yadah vs Dynamos (Grp 1 – National Sports Stadium, 1300hrs) Triangle United vs FC Platinum (Grp 4 – Mandava Stadium, 1500hrs) Tomorrow ZPC Kariba vs Herentals (Grp 1 – National Sports Stadium, 1100hrs) Ngezi Platinum Stars vs Whawha (Grp 4 – Mandava, 1100hrs) Chicken Inn vs Highlanders (Grp 2 – Barbourfields, 1300hrs) Tenax vs Manica Diamonds (Grp 3 – Sakubva, 1300hrs) CAPS United vs Harare City (Grp 1 – National Sports Stadium, 1500hrs)