The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter GHANA are setting the pace, on how to prepare for the 2022 World Cup qualifiers, by arranging a training camp for the Black Stars in Europe this month. The West Africans, who begin their Group G campaign against Ethiopia and South Africa next month, are leaving no stone unturned, in their bid to qualify for Qatar. They are in the same group as the Warriors, who start their ball rolling, with a clash against Bafana Bafana, next month. But, it is Ghana who have set the standards andd they are set to arrange for coach Charles Akonnor, and his players, to train in Europe from May 20 to June 2. The Ghana Football Association announced on their website they were looking to make a return to the global showpiece, after missing out on the 2018 edition, in Russia. The GFA, however, did not state which country the Black Stars will be stationed in for the training camp. “The Ghana Football Association wishes to announce the programme line up for the Black Stars from now, until the 2022 Africa Cup of Nations, in Cameroon,” the GFA announced. “Ghana have qualified for a record ninth Africa Cup of Nations tournament on the spin and are set to battle other African giants in the continental showpiece scheduled for Cameroon in June 2022. “The Black Stars will also begin the qualifiers for the 2022 FIFA World Cup in June this year — with an aim to qualify for the 2022 World Cup after missing out on the previous edition in Russia. ‘’The Black Stars are paired with South Africa, Zimbabwe and Ethiopia in Group G.” According to the itinerary, Ghana are set to host Ethiopia on June 4. They will then travel to South Africa for a date against Bafana Bafana a week later. They will clash against Zimbabwe, in back-to-back qualifiers, in September. The preparation schedule was unveiled three days after Ghanaian President, Nana Akufo-Addo, challenged the Black Stars to go all the way and win the AFCON tournament. He also wants them to reach the last four at the Qatar 2022 World Cup. Ghana last won the AFCON in 1982 and, 11 years ago, came within a successful penalty conversion, to reach the semi-finals, of the World Cup. “Our exploits in South Africa, in 2010 where we reached the quarter-finals of the World Cup, tell us that once we are properly prepared, we have the quality and the talent to match any of the best teams in the world,’’ President Akufo-Addo said in Accra, on Monday. He said his Government would raise US$10 million, to support the fund for the Black Stars, to try and achieve their goals, and challenged the corporate sector to raise a further US$15 million. “The target is to bring the Cup home by winning the AFCON 2022,’’ he said. ‘’We must go a step further than our second-place finishes in 1992, 2010 and 2015 and end the 40-year drought for a title. “We must also reach at least the semi-finals of the World Cup in Qatar. The task might seem daunting, but it is exactly not insurmountable.” After three straight appearances at the World Cup between 2006 and 2014, Ghana were edged by Egypt, for the ticket to Russia 2018. At the 2010 World Cup, in South Africa, Ghana reached the quarter-finals. However, they were beaten by Uruguay, in a penalty shoot-out. It Brazil 2014, the West Africans were knocked out at the group stage. ZIFA president, Felton Kamambo, has said he believes the Warriors are in good shape to qualify for their first World Cup finals. “I want World Cup qualification and to pass the group stages (of the Nations Cup finals),’’ Kamambo said. “South Africa and Ghana are not playing good football, which makes our chances very bright.’’ “It is great that we have qualified for the men’s AFCON for the third successive time. “I think we have generally been doing well to qualify for the AFCON since we made it for the first time in 2004. “But, we must not just celebrate qualification for the Nations Cup. “As a nation, we need to set some new targets for ourselves and aim for the knockout stage at the AFCON. “In fact, the vision is to have, at least, three of our national teams qualifying for the World Cup. “It is a legacy I would want to bestow on our football.’’ However, it looks like it is the Ghanaians who are setting the pace, in terms of preparations, for the World Cup qualifiers. Warriors coach, Zdravko Logarusic, is expected in the country next week. The Croat will then be expected to announce the Warriors’ provisional squad for the qualifiers. South Africa are still hunting for a new coach, to replace Molefi Ntseki, who was recently sacked for failing to qualify for AFCON finals. SAFA revealed yesterday they had secured their target and he will be unveiled next week. Reports from South Africa appear to suggest Carlos Queiroz will be named the next coach of Bafana Bafana. Some reports have claimed Benni McCarthy, Bafana Bafana’s record goal-scorer, could also be an option. However, McCarthy said he was only interested in his Usuthu project. “My heart is here. I am very happy. I love what I do. I came in with the biggest smile on my face,” he told the media yesterday. “When I see my players, they give me the same joy I get when my wife sees me, when my kids see me. ‘’Whilst I have that, I am not hungry. My eyes are not bigger than my belly. “So, I am very happy where I am. I love what I have. There will always be rumours when you do well and are successful.’’