The Herald Eddie Chikamhi
Senior Sports Reporter
HIGHLANDERS have set the tone for the new season by calling on all the club’s members to unite in the defence of their Chibuku Super Cup silverware. Bosso, who won the last competition in 2019, will begin their campaign against Bulawayo Chiefs, at Barbourfields tomorrow. A day after coach Mandla Mpofu told journalists the team was ready for the fight, despite injuries and some technical glitches preventing some of their new recruits to feature in the tourney, the club’s leadership called for a united front. “As the club navigates its way out of these difficult times, brought to bear by Covid-19, a global pandemic which ferociously hit the world and almost brought even the economies of global giants onto their knees, we would like to encourage members and fans to sharpen their sense of belonging and embrace the sense of unity, which is the quintessence of Highlanders Football Club,’’ they said in a statement, released by the new leadership under Johnfat Sibanda. “We are already in full stride, preparing for the start of the new football season, which kick-starts on May 22. ‘’We have assembled a good squad, which we believe, with adequate support from everyone, can compete for silverware. “We, therefore, kindly implore you all to rally behind the club leadership, and the team, for us to achieve the desired results both on and off the pitch. “We owe a successful, united and growing Highlanders to our grandchildren and generations to come. “Unity and stoic determination will see us emerge stronger together.” Fractures emerged at Highlanders, in the run-up to the elections, which brought in the new leadership. But, Bosso appear to have turned the corner, and are now looking for strategies to conquer domestic football again. “Against this background, we would like to remind members that the elections are now behind us, and the outcome does not make some members, and fans, more Highlanders than others, but equal sons and daughters of the same great institution that has been bequeathed by one generation to the next, as we will do,’’ read the statement. “We do not only say ‘at Highlanders we are one’, but at Highlanders we are all equal. “It is the nature of a democracy for people to disagree in opinion, but those differences should not make us enemies. “There is more that unites us than what may divide us. We have a very beautiful culture, which up to today, remains an envy of many clubs in the country and beyond our borders — unity.’’ Bosso signed Joel Ngodzo, Winston Mhango, Keith Mavhunga, Lenox Chikuwa, Peter Muduhwa and Rodi Sibanda. But, they all couldn’t be registered because they were acquired after the transfer window had closed. Their international transfer certificates can’t be obtained until the next transfer window, which opens on July 1. To make matters worse, three players picked up injuries, during the preparations for the opening round of the Chibuku Super Cup. This has left coach, Mpofu, with 20 players, who include three goalkeepers. Defensive midfielder Nqobizitha Masuku, right-back Crispen Ncube and central midfielder, Devine Mhindirira, have to undergo a late fitness tests. “As the holders, we are under pressure because we have to defend this title,’’ the coach said. “Looking at the group that we are in, it means we are going to play six derby matches and it’s not going to be easy. “With the limited arsenal we have right now, we need to push hard. We have injuries in camp, but I think they will recover in time for the Sunday game. “As a coach I have to concentrate on players that are eligible to play in the tournament. ‘’It’s going to be tough but I will demand results from the boys so that we progress to the next stage. “It was not possible to get friendly matches as we wanted, meaning we have to push ourselves and show character.”