The Herald LONDON. — Manchester United legend Roy Keane has become the fourth player to be inducted into the English Premier League Hall of Fame. The former midfielder is one of the most decorated players in English Premier League history, having won seven titles with United, and joins ex-team-mate Eric Cantona, Thierry Henry and Alan Shearer in the Hall of Fame. “I feel very lucky to be inducted but I’ve only been inducted because of the players I’ve played with,” Keane said in contrasting style to Cantona, whose place in the Hall of Fame was announced earlier yesterday. The Irishman was a dominant figure during United’s golden era under Sir Alex Ferguson, lifting numerous trophies as club caption across his 12-year spell between 1993 and 2005. Keane didn’t appear to be in celebratory mood though and stuck to terse, one-line answers after his inclusion was announced — though he did reserve special praise for his former Nottingham Forest manager Brian Clough, who brought him from Cobh Ramblers in County Cork, Ireland to the Premier League. “Brian Clough (was my biggest influence) for signing and giving me my debut,” Keane said. “His advice before my debut was telling me to control the ball, pass it to my team-mate and run, that was the foundation of my career.” Despite playing the majority of his career under Alex Ferguson, Keane named Clough as the man who had the biggest influence on him. Keane was a huge part of the United team that dominated English football under Ferguson but the pair fell out after his acrimonious exit in 2005 and still don’t see eye to eye to this day. As well as seven Premier League titles, Keane also won four FA Cups, four Community Shields, one Champions League and an Intercontinental Cup during his time at United. Keane, who made 366 Premier League appearances, scoring 39 times and registering 33 assists, is widely regarded as one of the best central midfield players of his time and had a reputation for being a no-nonsense hardman. — Mailonline.