The Herald Sitshengisiwe Ndlovu
The Covid-19 pandemic has seen a major increase in online business that part of which has become to be known as trade in parcels. This phenomenon has been openly embraced globally as it seeks to support economic activity in periods of crisis such as presented by the Covid-19 pandemic. This positive development now demands a review of several policies in the international trade spectrum as trade in parcels is complex, fraught with supply/demand and at the border challenges as revealed by studies. In essence trade in parcels rides on e-commerce that touches on several aspects of trade facilitation including regulatory frameworks that cover competition and fiscal policies. In contrast to containerisation, trade in parcels is more involving with far more interlinked players and policies as described. Increased digital trade has had its impact on traditional commerce thereby threatening the status quo within the competition policies. The inherent danger of social inequalities caused by cartels who may regulate supplies is ever present especially in developing countries where  e-commerce regulation is to take a foothold. In a situation where there is an abundance of suppliers the opposite occurs due to several players that can institute market efficiency, enabling low income consumers to afford the goods and services. Cross border trade in parcels calls for a review in taxation policies influenced by  the definition of geographical borders and  customs procedures visa vis  the  traditional importation of parcels  before the digital era. A report by Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development reveals a significant change in cross border parcel shipments’ type and value. According to the report in the period January to April 2020 there has been a global increase in small parcels covering electrical, pharmaceuticals, mechanical parts and medical instruments. Lockdown measures including social distancing to mitigate Covid-19 has impacted consumer patterns as evidenced by the sharp increase of small parcels of games, books and toys. The role of customs as dictated by this surge of trade in parcels becomes critical. The change in type and value of  small parcels demands the Customs Administration in its role as a watchdog of departments  of health, environment and safety etc  to increase the enforcements without stifling trade  revisiting the de-minimis principle. The balancing act  between trade facilitation and revenue collection will be an area for policy makers to consider very seriously. Maintaining current thresholds for nominal clearance against a deluge of  small parcels could be overwhelming for the customs personnel nevertheless negatively impact the fiscus. The fiscus  may benefit from  a downward  review  of the  de -minimis levels  but not without  seriously impeding  the  smooth movement of the increased volume of small parcels as they get subjected to duty payment. The World Development Report of  2021 reports that the EU’s nominal clearance  for small parcels pegged at US$100 presented  numerous challenges  as it eroded VAT and other tax heads. This forced the EU  and other  countries to completely remove the nominal clearance thresholds  and reduce the threshold  to widen the tax base and plug the revenue leakages. The above development remains attractive to developing countries as way of raising flows to the fiscus  however, with the advent of the Africa Continent Free Trade Agreement that is already in operation; the premise of  tariffs as  source of increase  in  revenue  in contrast to increase in revenue trade as a result  free trade has  been rejected by research. Revenue  from increased trade  far exceeds revenue from tariffs. The AfCFTA vision “is comprehensive technology that facilitates connections across  all key factors rapidly, cost effectively and efficiently regardless of size, since historically small and medium size enterprises in particular have not been able to take advantage of trade agreements,” as articulated by Secretary General Wamkele Mene. African e-Trade Group — a key partner of Africa Union Commission  through  a digital platform known as Sokokuu  envisages to expand markets for  African goods and services through enabled digital transformation of Africa. This initiative  is premised on  relationships with national governments in Africa through the use of ICT to enable smooth tax collection through a transparent reporting system. The AfCFTA being an inclusive trade agreement currently in e-commerce negotiations, will need to consider leveraging trade in parcels for the benefit of the MSMEs where women are disproportionately represented. While e-commerce enables  MSMEs easy access to wide markets however, the uptake remains relatively low due the low rate of  their  technology adoption. In addition, the AU  Digital Transformation  Strategy  for Africa 2020-2030 observes  a gender gap in mobile access  and usage that  may perpetuate inequality across the continent moreover with the upsurge in trade in parcels a development likely  to become a reality. Cross border trade in parcels  through e-commerce presents a huge opportunity for inclusive trade  through regulatory frame work that will compliment the efforts of logistic companies, delivery companies, postal services and freight-forwarders while protecting the private  data emanating from the service chain. The “appropriate  soft infrastructure-enabled  mechanisms-such as enhanced connectivity, more effective training delivery and stronger feedback loops, complaints channels, and resolution methods — can boost the capacity building of trade and customs officials and align structural policy for overall deeper integration,” according to Secretary General Wamkele Mene. This is the position that policy makers may consider  as they review the regulatory framework of  e-commerce and trade in parcels.  Sitshengisiwe Ndlovu is president of OWITZIMBABWE: MBA/UNCTAD: Trade and Gender Linkages/ IAC Dip/Cert: Trade in Services and SDGs: Robert Schuman Center of Advanced Studies/IDEPCert: Making the African Continental Free Trade Agreement Work. She writes in her personal capacity. For more on trade matters visit her Blog on website: www.owitzimbabwe.org 