The Herald LONDON. — The stage is set for English theatres to reopen from today (Monday), and venues are banking on crowds returning this summer. Which shows are opening, will audiences return – and could the comeback be short-lived? If a playwright had written the pandemic, a theatre critic might have struggled to pin down its genre — tragedy, thriller, depressing kitchen sink drama or farce? But they might have recognised the writer’s skill in timing the plot twists. Just as you think you’re finally getting to the happy ending, the suspense, tension and terror begin to build again. In the real-world theatre industry, venue bosses have had to decide whether to open from Monday at step three of the government’s reopening roadmap, when capacities will be restricted to 50%, up to a maximum of 1,000 people. Many have chosen to wait until step four, planned for 21 June, when they will be able to play to packed houses. But new Covid variants have thrown that date — our appointment to get back to “normal” in many aspects of life – into doubt. We are on the edges of our seats. Speaking last week, Lyn Gardner, associate editor of The Stage newspaper, said it had been hard for venue bosses to predict how things will pan out. “Do you open and say, well, at the moment Covid infection rates are well down, and get some performances in and get your show up and running?” she said. “Or do you hold off in the hope that you will get the benefits of being able to run your show without social distancing [in June]? “But you do face the potential concern that, if we see increasing signs of an Indian variant . . . what impact will that have upon your show?” On Friday, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the Indian variant “could make it more difficult to move to step four in June”, but no decisions have been taken. According to the latest official figures, more arts, entertainment and recreation businesses were still suffering last month than in any other industry. “Theatre has been hit so badly,” Gardner continued. “It has been closed pretty well solidly for 14 months, and West End producers by their nature are prepared to take risks. “I guess a lot of them are thinking, we need to get open, we need to be giving people work, we need to get these shows up and running – and [we will] bite the bullet of what might come to pass.” When they do open, will people actually want to go back to the theatre, and go on public transport to get there? We do know there are fewer tourists and others spending time in the West End and other city centres, who might take in a show. According to research firm Indigo, 56% of cultural audiences said last month that they had booked tickets for the future — but 36 percent said they may not return for at least six months, if at all. “There is inevitably some pent up demand, and people who are really keen theatregoers are absolutely aching to get back into the auditorium,” Gardner said. But if all does go to plan, a lot of shows will be opening around the same time. “Will there be enough audience to go around?” — bbcworld.