The Herald Eddie Chikamhi
Senior Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWE A cricket team coach, Stuart Matsikenyeri, says the presence of some Proteas regulars in the South Africa A squad to tour Zimbabwe, could expose the local fringe players to the challenges of the game at the top. South Africa A, who are led by Zubayr Hamza, are set to tour at the end of this month for four One-Day matches and two Four-Dayers. The tour will get underway with the One-Day series, which will see Proteas regulars such as Andile Phehlukwayo, Dwaine Pretorius, Janneman Malan and Reeza Hendricks featuring, ahead of the South Africa national team’s tour to West Indies. The Four-Day team features CSA Four-Day Franchise Series stars such as Dominic Hendricks, Raynard van Tonder and Sinethemba Qeshile. “The South Africa A squad is quite strong and we are happy about it. We couldn’t have asked for a better opponent,’’ said Matsikenyeri. “If you look at it, there are some guys who have been in and out of the Proteas and, some of these guys, would want to use this opportunity to show that they can still ask some serious questions. “So, this is an opportunity for us, as well, to expose our guys to top-class cricket. I am sure we will emerge from this series with more benefits.’’ Zimbabwe Cricket also named their A squad for the two series yesterday. The squad is an exciting mixture of youth and experience. Eight players — Faraz Akram, Ryan Burl, Tendai Chatara, Tanaka Chivanga, Bradley Evans, Roy Kaia, Tapiwa Mufudza and Richmond Mutumbami — have been picked for both formats. Former Zimbabwe Under-19 players, Tadiwanashe Marumani and Dion Myers, have been included in the One-Day squad. Wessly Madhevere and Milton Shumba are in the Four-Day side. “Having the opportunity to play A team cricket is massive because we last played at this level, I think, some three years ago,” said Matsikenyeri. “Going forward, this is an opportunity that we are going to use to expose as many players as possible to competitive cricket. “That is why we are keen for this opportunity. Matsikenyeri will be assisted by Eric Chauluka, who will also take care of fielding. Njabulo Ncube will be the bowling coach, while Clement Rizhibowa will come in as the fitness trainer. Keith Kulinga was named the analyst and Travor Wambe the physiotherapist. Lovemore Banda will be the team manager. Veterans Timycen Maruma and Chamu Chibhabha have been included in the limited-overs side. The one-dayers, scheduled for May 29 and 31 and June 2 and 4 June, will be played behind closed doors at Harare Sports Club. The first four-dayer, pencilled in for June 7-10 June, will also be at the same venue. Takashinga Cricket Club will then host the second four-day match, set for June 13-16.  Zimbabwe “A” One-Day Squad Akram Faraz, Burl Ryan, Chari Brian, Chatara Tendai, Chibhabha Chamunorwa, Chivanga Tanaka, Evans Bradley, Jongwe Luke, Kaia Roy, Maruma Timycen, Marumani Tadiwanashe, Mufudza Tapiwa, Mutumbami Richmond, Myers Dion, Ndlovu Ainsley, Nyauchi Victor Reserves: Mumba Carl, Musakanda Tarisai, Nenhunzi Tinashe, Nyangani Tadiwanashe, Shumba Milton  Zimbabwe “A” Four-Day Squad Akram Faraz, Burl Ryan, Chatara Tendai, Chipungu Brighton, Chivanga Tanaka, Evans Bradley, Gumbie Joylord, Kaia Roy, Kaitano Takudzwanashe, Madhevere Wessly, Mudzinganyama Brian, Mufudza Tapiwa, Mumba Carl, Musakanda Tarisai, Mutumbami Richmond, Shumba Milton Reserves: Chari Brian, Myers Dion.