The Herald Talent Bope-Arts Reporter Zimbabwean visual artist Tinotenda Mabasa has taken fashion designing to another level through painting, which is not common in the arts industry. In an interview, Mabasa said it started from his imagination to showcase his artefacts on human body from their fashion. Mabasa (27) is now earning a living in South Africa through using paint to design fashion, adding he decided to do so since the platform was limited to showcase his artistry work. He is into designing shoes, hats, T-shirts and other clothing materials through painting. “This is what distinguishes me from other artists, I use fashion to showcase my talent without having to wait in the gallery. I decided to take the art out of the gallery into the everyday lives of the people. “I realised that due to Covid-19 induced challenges, exhibitions were no longer allowed to contain the spread of the pandemic. These exhibitions were run on annual basis, so to wait the whole year for only one event was not profitable. This is why I came up with another unique way to earn a living. “This drove me into fashion and I started designing worn out shoes. I improved from there to designing new shoes and later discovered that a lot of people like it. I later introduced models and the response was so overwhelming. “It was as if I had come up with a new fashion brand. This was around late 2019 when I started this.” Mabasa said he was now teaching many artists fashion designing. “I’m working with a lot of people whom I am now teaching how to design fashion.” He said it was difficult for him to wait for exhibitions which were conducted annually to showcase his work. Mabasa participated in the biggest world exhibition show in Cape Town and became one of the award winners. “I work with the gallery that I usually exhibit my staff annually during the exhibition shows. “In 2020, I participated in the biggest exhibition in Cape Town which drew a lot of contemporary artists globally. “I was one of the award winners there, so I’m proud about it. Apart from fashion design, I also do wall paintings in various institutions like schools. Designing fashion gave me an opportunity to draw attention to local people here in South Africa.” Mabasa started his artistic journey while he was in Form One at Rio Tinto Mhondoro High School in Mashonaland West. Visual arts focus on canvas, paintings and other things used for display in the house, he said. “My works try to appreciate what we have as Africans in our society, that’s why I delved dipper into fashion designs. The world has responded overwhelmingly to fashion designs as I could meet more than 10 people in the street putting on clothes which I designed.” Mabasa said self-determination can dispel all potential obstacles. He recognised the power of imagination, adding that before coming up with something, it started from imagination. “In the near future I’m going to unleash something unusual that the world will think may be I’m crazy.”