The Herald Beeson Mashanda-Geo Environment Studies at Midlands State University Before the start of each term I knew that I would have to endure an hour or 30 minutes of a lecture from my father and at the end of the conversation he would say “one good turn son deserves another in return” which means that a person should do something nice for someone who has done something nice for him or for her. The same concept can be applied even in life’s choices. At the time I did not take it seriously up until I started to see life as it is and came to the realisation that one good turn in life’s choices has its own rewards not only to you as an individual but the results might benefit those who surrounds you. The environment we are in as youths, now needs a careful approach in terms of the choices and decisions we make and in this piece we will take a ride into the life’s choices we need to make in order to make it to greater heights in this environment we live in. The first thing before anything else in life’s good choices is to just love yourself, when you love yourself you will push yourself to greater heights because you’re concerned about your yourself before everything else it is better for everyone to look at you as a narcissist but in mind you have yourself to build. If you’re not putting yourself above everything else you won’t be doing yourself or anyone else a favour, the outcome is that where you’re supposed to shine, you will remain in obscurity and wallowing over chances you should have utilised when you had the chance. The first thing we have to consider in order to make good choices as the youths is the circle of influence we have in our day today lives. It is true when it is said that in order to know what a person is like in terms of character and their day to day activities even if you’re from far from their current location of residence just spend a day with their friends, the results will amaze you. The reason behind all of this is the fact that friends tend to enormously influence ones actions. We as the youths of Zimbabwe,we need to monitor the company we keep. If  you find that they’re not compatible with your goals, drop them and make new friends that will help you to have a productive life. Friends or your circle of influence should be there to actually help you move forward in life and not to give advice or teach you destructive ways of handling issues. It is up to you to carefully look at your connections – for instance,  are they building you or are they pulling you down with them, the choice is yours to make. With the various technological advancements available, one is now able to choose which career path one wishes to pursue. Ladies and gentleman it is advisable that you choose the careers that you love and while doing the career that you love it also important to plot ahead, it is not advisable that one sticks to being employed but instead learn to invest as a youth build empires and not be myopic about your future. We are blessed in Zimbabwe that we as youths have various avenues to open our businesses from. Ladies and gentleman  when looking for a career you love it is good to know that the process is long and requires that sometimes you spend years of learning and experimentation but the results at the end will have rewards We as the youths have relationships we get involved in but youths should bear in mind that gone are the days when one had to be the housewife while the other is going to work. This modern environment requires that everyone has something that he or she is doing to add income to the well-being of the family. My point is that we as the youths must have the habit of choosing the right partner who builds the other in terms of the profession you’re currently striving for. If a relationship is not working for you financially, it is not wrong to just let go and wait for the right partner and in the meantime work on yourself to be better than you were yesterday. In conclusion good choices are beneficial and you as the today’s youth should make it a habit to be bold in what you want in life and make sure that u make decisions that will benefit you. It is okay to make wrong choices because we learn from our mistakes ,focus and just remember what chases you determines the pace at which you run.