The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter IT appears local netball is headed for better days as the Zimbabwe Netball Association confirmed receipt of the Rainbow Amateur Netball League application for registration. There have been some disagreements, between the two parties, in the past, following the formation of RANL, in 2018. It also had a negative effect on the Super League, run by the national association, as teams migrated to the new league. But, the recent developments, are expected to bring sanity to the sport. ZINA secretary-general, Barbara Rice, confirmed RANL had submitted their papers for registration. “Yes, they did (submit), last week, I think on the 27th (of April). We are looking into it. “This is going to be a betterment for the sport of netball,” said Rice. A successful registration will see the league becoming an affiliate to the national association, which should bring sanity to the sport. RANL secretary-general, Moses Gukurume, said the engagement between the two parties will benefit the sport. “They told us to make our submission for registration and we did that. The other copy we sent we sent it to the SRC. “It’s a very welcome development because it will bring sanity to netball. “There is no way we can play amateur netball without the control of ZINA. So it’s going to bring sanity in netball. “Regulation is good, it brings sanity, development in sport and it has its own benefits, even sponsorship, because it shows we are organised and do our things in a proper way. “ZINA are our mother body, they have accommodated us, it’s something very positive. “I would rather say we have managed to go beyond personalities for the bigger picture,” said Gukurume. The development comes at a time when sport is slowly returning in the country and netball is among those disciplines working towards resuming their activities. Gukurume also noted they were making progress with preparations for resumption of competition, with 17 clubs under the league, confirming the participation for 2021. These are ZDF, Khami, reigning champions from 2019 Correctional Queens, Beta Queens, Golden Valley, Green Buffaloes, Black Rhinos, Ngezi Platinum, Goldreef, Platinum, Green Fuel, Mambas, Tenax, Support Unit, Mutare City, Glow Petroleum and Lusumbami.