The Herald ROME. — Inter Milan are on the brink of the Italian Serie A which they could claim, for the first time in over a decade, this weekend. Juventus are scrambling for a Champions League spot. Antonio Conte’s Inter travel south to basement club Crotone today where a win will allow them to put one hand on a trophy, they last won in 2010. If Inter win and second-placed Atalanta, who are 11 points off top spot, fail to claim all three points at Sassuolo tomorrow, Inter will lift their 19th Italian Serie A crown, with four games to go. Inter could also be crowned champions with a draw, if Atalanta lose, but other results would have to go the league leaders’ way. Inter’s Chinese president, Steven Zhang, returned to Milan this week for the run-in to the title celebrations. And, despite the pressure midfielder Nicolo Barella said the team were in a “calm frame of mind” having come close last season. Inter finished one point behind Juventus last year, having also lost the Europa League final in 2020 to Sevilla. “We had the same objective last season. We lost a final and this galvanised us,” said Barella. “We transformed the experience into something positive. This year, we’re in the position we wanted to be in. “We’re a well-balanced side that has found an identity.” Barella scored in Inter’s 2-0 win over Juventus in the San Siro in January, “the match that made us aware of our strength,” the Italian said. “Beating the team that had dominated for years was important.” Top Inter scorers Romelu Lukaku (21) and Lautaro Martínez (15) will be eager to find the net having both failed to score in the past four games. Crotone, meanwhile, can count on Nigerian forward Simy, the third top scorer in the Italian Serie A with 19 goals this campaign, who scored last weekend in a win over Parma to delay relegation. Juventus are fourth with coach Andrea Pirlo under increasing pressure as they travel to Udinese fighting not to slip out of the top four. Juve lost their last trip to Udine back in July, and have been shaky on the road this campaign, dropping points in 10 away games. They are equal on points with third-placed Napoli and AC Milan, in fifth, with Lazio lurking five points off fourth place with a game in hand. AC Milan host 18th-placed Benevento at the San Siro with Zlatan Ibrahimovic set to return as the side come off back-to-back defeats. Italian Serie A Fixtures Today: Hellas Verona v Spezia (3pm); Crotone v Internazionale (6pm); Milan v Benevento (8:45pm). Tomorrow: Lazio v Genoa (12:30pm); Napoli v Cagliari (3pm); Sassuolo v Atalanta (3pm); Bologna v Fiorentina (3pm); Udinese v Juventus (6pm); Sampdoria v Roma (8:45pm). Monday: Torino v Parma (8:45pm). — AFP.