The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter DYNAMOS’ quest in the Chibuku Super Cup has been boosted by the registration of six more players, who were ineligible for the first match, when the tournament started last week. The Glamour Boys will face Yadah Stars tomorrow, hoping to overcome the pre-season hangover, which saw them struggle in the goalless draw against Herentals. DeMbare started the campaign, without seven players, from their squad of 28. Defender Emmanuel Jalai was also out due to a groin injury. But, while Jalai is still doubtful, club spokesperson, Yvonne Mangunda, yesterday said the coach, Tonderai Ndiraya, will have more options this week. Mangunda said DeMbare have made the breakthrough in the registration of Godknows Murwira, Newman Sianchali, Shadreck Nyahwa, goalkeeper Geofrey Chitsumba, Luke Musikiri and Antonio Bill. Midfielder Juan Mutudza, who joined them from Herentals last year on loan, was the only player yet to get his paperwork done, by yesterday. “Pending registration issues last week meant seven, out of the 28 players, were ineligible to play in Sunday’s 0-0 Chibuku Super Cup draw with Herentals. “This will not be the case on Saturday, against Yadah, after six players were registered by the Premier Soccer League. “Godknows Murwira, Shadreck Nyahwa, Newman Sianchali, Geofrey Chitsumba, Luke Musikiri and Bill Antonio will be up for selection, after missing Sunday’s game. “The only player still to be registered is Juan Adrian Mutudza,” said Mangunda in a statement. DeMbare misfired badly in their first match against Herentals. The giants were lucky to come out with a point, after they had just one shot on target, the entire 90 minutes. “It means a lot to me. I will try my best to return the favour to those who made effort for me to be registered,’’ said Murwira. “We are a squad of 28 players and everyone is capable of delivering the results. “I believe our availability will make the coaches’ job easier. We are now shifting focus to getting a positive result. “Dynamos is all about positive results and, through togetherness, we can deliver. “Our next assignment against Yadah is not an easy one. The result against Herentals should remind us of what we are up against.” DeMbare started with only three players — Ali Maliselo, Tinotenda Muringai and Jarrison Selemani —from the squad that featured in their last Premiership campaign in 2019. Newboys Chitsumba and Antonio are also excited about the prospects, of making their debut, in the blue-and-white strip. “I’m feeling extremely excited. I was waiting for this opportunity for a long time,” said former Golden Eagles ‘keeper, Chitsumba. “Now that I’m available, I’m ready to play. “I would like to thank our management for their efforts.” Chitsumba, however, could find it difficult to dislodge Taimon Mvula. Antonio, who is one of the three teenage signings from Prince Edward High School, has also not ruled out his chances of playing a part. Ndiraya rates the young attacking midfielder very highly. “It was a huge shock for me to hear that I wasn’t available for selection due to unsuccessful registration. “I have been praying that the process won’t take long. I’m happy it happened so fast. “I’m happy that I’m now eligible to play. If I make it into the final team, I might be able to play in the next game against Yadah, which is what I’m looking forward to,” said Antonio. Fixtures Tomorrow: Bulawayo City vs Bulawayo Chiefs (Grp 2 – Barbourfields Stadium, 1100hrs) Black Rhinos vs Cranborne Bullets (Group 3 – Sakubva Stadium, 1300hrs), Yadah vs Dynamos (Grp 1 – National Sports Stadium, 1300hrs) Triangle United vs FC Platinum (Grp 4 – Mandava Stadium, 1500hrs) Sunday: ZPC Kariba vs Herentals (Grp 1 – National Sports Stadium, 1100hrs), Ngezi Platinum Stars vs Whawha (Grp 4 – Mandava Stadium, 1100hrs), Chicken Inn vs Highlanders (Grp 2 – Barbourfields Stadium, 1300hrs) Tenax vs Manica Diamonds (Grp 3 – Sakubva Stadium, 1300hrs), CAPS United vs Harare City (Grp 1 – National Sports Stadium, 1500hrs)