The Herald LONDON. — Manchester United players are keen for Ole Gunnar Solskjaer to sign Aston Villa midfielder Jack Grealish ahead of Jadon Sancho this summer, according to reports. United wanted to sign Sancho last summer but were unable to strike a deal with Borussia Dortmund, who demanded in excess of £100 million for the England international. Dortmund have softened their stance ahead of the summer window and are now willing to sell Sancho if their £75 million asking price is met. But according to The Telegraph, a number of United’s players have been impressed by Grealish’s performances this season and view the Villa captain as an “appealing summer signing”. However, it’s claimed that Solskjaer’s preference is to sign Sancho after missing out on the 21-year-old last year. Grealish, meanwhile, also has a huge admirer in Pep Guardiola and the England midfielder is also on Manchester City’s short-list. It’s understood that Villa would demand around £75m to part with their talisman this summer. Speaking earlier this month Grealish’s agent, Jonathan Barnett, suggested that a move to United for the Villa captain is unlikely. “The truth is we don’t know (what will happen),” Barnett said. “There are many clubs and I wouldn’t put Manchester United at the top of that (list). But he could stay. He could stay as well so it’s a conversation the club, Aston Villa, will have with Jack and ourselves then we’ll see where we go.” Meanwhile, Gary Neville believes that Manchester United can make three signings this summer that would deliver them the Premier League title next season: Harry Kane, Sancho and Raphael Varane. Undoubtedly those three world class talents would improve any squad in any league and Neville believes the centre-back, winger and centre-forward would bridge the gap between United and City. The Red Devils legend was asked in a Twitter Q&A: “Where can Man Utd finish next season with the right signings?” He replied: “Varane, Kane and Sancho — title.” It is expected to be a busy summer at Old Trafford, with some huge transfers in the offing, but whether they could pull off that trio of arrivals is yet to be seen. Club owners, the Glazer family, have been touted as likely to make a marquee signing in order to appease disgruntled fans after the European Super League debacle, but whether they might not quite be ready to spend around £300m on three players. — Metro.