The Herald Talent Bope
Arts Reporter
Canadian-based Zimbabwean author, entrepreneur and real estate businessman Zeb Tsikira and wife Colleen recently donated groceries to L’Arche Zimbabwe, a community of people living with intellectual disabilities. The 37-year-old businessman, who wrote the book, “You Can’t Save Your Way to Wealth”, was in the country for the past two weeks and brought smiles to 23 people with intellectual disabilities as he shared his life story and the inspirations on his writings. In an interview, Tsikira said it was part of his community and social responsibilities to assist the less privileged, and giving a testimony about his books and how they can motivate the community. “It was amazing to spend time in Zimbabwe. I learnt a lot in these couple of days. One thing I have learnt is that Zimbabwe is open for business. “My background is not that rosy and my heart bleeds for the needy people. I grew up poor and I know how it feels to get a helping hand. We have engaged L’Arche Zimbabwe as an entry point and we will continue working with them, they are now part of our family. We bought the groceries for them.” The talented author declined to share the value of the donation, saying that it was irrelevant. “When you give, it is not about showing off, I believe the world should not know what your right hand has done unless maybe there is a motive behind. “It is just that because of my personality, then the media follows.” As a real estate player, Tsikira mixed and mingled with top entrepreneurs on possible investments in the property sector. “People are doing it big here. The profit margins are amazing and I can’t wait to get into the property sector. On the arts sector, there is definitely a lot to be done in order to reach international markets.” Tsikira is also well known for promoting local talent, as he recently featured on Zimdancehall chanter Bazooker’s song “Millionare”, which is getting rave reviews beyond the borders. “During my stay in Zimbabwe, I met a lot of musicians that I am planning to work with in empowering the youth. I networked with a lot of business people. I also visited my grandmother in Mutare and also my 102-year-old grandfather in Gwanda.” Speaking at the same occassion, L’Arche Zimbabwe’s leader Time Baluwa hailed the Tsikira family for remembering them. “L’Arche Zimbabwe is a community of people with intellectual disabilities, sharing life and belonging to an international federation. We celebrate the unique value of every person and recognise our need of one another. “Our mission is to make known the gifts of people with intellectual disabilities through mutual transforming relationships. ‘‘We would like to thank the Tsikira family for visiting us and spending time with us during this difficult period, may God continue to bless them.” Baluwa said they are engaged in several income generating projects to and improve the standards of their two homes. “We live with 23 core members at our two houses here in Waterfalls. We run workshops for our core members and their assistants. ‘‘These workshops include the crafts, therapy centres, poultry farm, gardening, day-care and the grinding mill,” he said.