The Herald LONDON. – Thomas Tuchel plans to ruin Leicester City’s bid to make history, as the Chelsea manager eyes the first trophy of his reign in today’s FA Cup final at Wembley. The match kicks-off at 6:15pm. Tuchel has enjoyed a superb run since replacing the sacked Frank Lampard in January. The German has led Chelsea to the FA Cup and Champions League finals, while taking them back into the English Premier League football’s top four. Winning his maiden silverware in English football would be further evidence of Tuchel’s impact. But Leicester, two points above Chelsea in the English Premier League, will pose a significant threat to Tuchel’s ambitions under the astute guidance of boss Brendan Rodgers. The Foxes are aiming to win the FA Cup for the first time in their first final appearance since 1969. No club have appeared in more FA Cup finals without lifting the trophy than Leicester, who have lost four times in the showpiece match. In contrast, Chelsea have won the FA Cup eight times, with their last victory coming against Manchester United in 2018. The Blues, beaten in last year’s final against Arsenal, will be making their fourth appearance in the competition’s denouement in the last five years. Having already beaten managerial luminaries Pep Guardiola, Jurgen Klopp, Jose Mourinho, Diego Simeone, Zinedine Zidane and Carlo Ancelotti since arriving at Chelsea, Tuchel will pit his wits against Rodgers for the first time as Blues boss. Tuchel has energised the likes of N’Golo Kante, Jorginho and Antonio Rudiger, with England midfielder Mason Mount growing more influential by the week. But Chelsea’s limp 1-0 defeat against Arsenal on Tuesday – just the third loss under Tuchel – emphasised the importance of solving the issues with forwards Timo Werner, Kai Havertz and Hakim Ziyech sooner rather than later. He has already confirmed Kepa Arrizabalaga will start instead of first-choice keeper Edouard Mendy. “He starts the FA Cup final.” Tuchel said. “We trust him and he deserves it, that is the basis of why we put him in the line-up.” Rodgers also has Leicester’s top-four ambitions to consider as he plots his line-up against Chelsea, but the chance to create history will be his only focus at Wembley. “We have earned the right to be in the final and we will arrive with an opportunity to make our own history. We feel we’re in with a chance and if we can play to our level we have a great chance,” Rodgers said. – AFP