The Herald Eddie Chikamhi and Alec Masocha
ORGANISERS of the OK Grand Challenge have described the 2021 final field as one of the most spectacular in years after 20 horses were named at yesterday’s final acceptance at Borrowdale Park. The race will this year feature a new record of 18 runners, in the field, and two more horses having been named in the reserve runners’ list. OK Zimbabwe commercial director, Albert Katsande, welcomed the return of the race after the event was cancelled last year, because of Covid-19. The prestigious annual horse race will be held on June 5 and for the first time, the event will be held behind closed doors, under the Covid-19 health protocols. The race, however, will be fully integrated online. Katsande said this year the organisers were spoilt for choice and paid tribute to the owners and trainers from the Mashonaland Turf Club after a record 31 nominations were received. “Owners and trainers, I can’t thank you more for all the hard work which has resulted in us seeing a record number of horses being put forward for this race,’’ he said. “This is a record because, in the previous years, we have scrambled to say will we be able to do the forecaster jackpot promotion, with seven horses. “The other year we struggled for 15 horses. “This year we are spoilt for choice and thank you to all the owners and trainers, for putting up these handsome and pretty horses and having the confidence in showcasing the accepted horses. “Last year we missed out on the promotion and I am glad that, with technology, we have managed to come back. “Today, we are talking about the 32nd OK Grand Challenge Race. This is, however, the 33rd year that we have been running the OK Grand Challenge Jackpot promotion. “The race is part of the much bigger promotion which we run in store.” The OK Grand Challenge returns this year with a sponsorship of US$70 000. The winner will walk away with a purse of US$35 000 while the first runner-up will take home US$17 500. Third place gets US$10 000 while US$7 000 has been set aside for the fourth-place. For the first time in the history of the race, a record 31 horses were nominated and 28 were declared runners. There were further eliminations to leave an exciting field of 18, led by Gokhan Terzi’s Tandava, Bridget Stidolph’s Wantage, Kirk Swanson’s Diesel and Dust, Armstrong, Holy Land and local fans’ favourite, Dindingwe. Fortuna Doro and Christofle, both of Stidolph’s yard, have been named as the two reserve runners. Terzi’s stable has nine horses while Swansong has five. Stidolph has three, in the main race, and two on the reserve runners list. Ashley Fortune has one horse in the final field — Cash Time. Mashonaland Turf Club vice-chairman, Scott Buchan, said the overwhelming nominations resulted in eliminations, probably for the first time, in the 33-year history of the race. “A lot has been said in the build up to this race and if I am to be honest, a lot is always said in the build up to the OK Grand Challenge, and this year is no different,” said Buchan. “It’s probably for two main reasons.  Firstly, on the equine side, it is extremely difficult to get a horse good enough to qualify for this race — to get that horse prepared, trained and fit enough to the race itself, without injury, and in good health. “To then get a jockey, to partner that horse, to build a relationship with it, to trust in it, and to put enough faith in each other to go out there and actually win. “The second talking point created is born out of the fundamental tenant, no different from the first. “It is built upon relationship and trust, and enough faith to go out there and achieve it. “And, I talk of the relationship between Mashonaland Turf Club and OK Zimbabwe. Today that relationship has resulted in a number of firsts.’’ OK Grand Challenge 2021 final acceptances: Tandava, Peggson, Daffiq, Mr Greenlight, Three to Tango, Wantage, Yarraman, What a Dandy, Finchatton, Gladstone, Armstrong, Bugatti Blue, Fareeq, Diesel and Dust, Dindingwe, Only Him, Cash Time, Holy Land Reserve Runners: Fortuna Doro, Christofle