The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter Popular dancer and musician Francis Dhaka, affectionately known as “Franco Slomo”, said preparations for his South African tour which begins next week are at an advanced stage. The Extra Kwazvose frontman is set to leave the country on Sunday ahead of the show in Johannesburg featuring Munyaradzi Dhewa Moyo and Bvumavaranda Express and Nico Chikudo and Bangala Express. The show is sponsored by Chiwas Promotion. In an interview, Slomo said: “We are leaving on May 9, this is our first show since lockdown and Covid-19 pandemic has greatly affected us,” he said. “The show will be held under the Covid-19 restrictions and regulations as you know things are still tough for everyone. “We have decided to have a tour in South Africa where we will also seek other opportunities on how best we can develop the group. Chiwas Promotion has facilitated everything and we are proud of such promoters who are also giving equal opportunities to artistes like us.” Slomo said despite not hosting shows since the live gigs were banned to curb the spread of Covid-19, he was busy in the studio working on a new album. “The new album is coming and I am planning to launch it in July. So far I do not have any collaborations, even from the previous album. For now, I am focusing on building Franco Slomo, to prove to the world. The album is now in pre-production and I will release more details soon.” Asked how he has been surviving during the lockdown, Slomo said he was hustling. “The Covid-19 pandemic opened our eyes, minds and gave us room to think outside the box. I have been hustling to survive and this time it proved that artistes should not rely on music alone, but have other projects like farming, buying and selling of goods and other side hustles. “I haven’t been scarce though, it is just that because of the restrictions, some places where we used to hang out we no longer go there.” Slomo said he was perfecting his dancing skills as he wanted to introduce new dances at the upcoming show. “According to the organisers, they are also planning for the show to be held virtual too so that those who can’t make it will be able to watch it live on the social media. I am also going to introduce new dances.”