The Herald MARVELOUS NAKAMBA took to Instagram, to congratulate Aston Villa’s hearty comeback, which powered them to a 2-1 win over Tottenham Hotspur in an English Premiership match in London on Wednesday night. The Zimbabwe international midfielder was one of the stars of the Villa win, bouncing back from a mistake that helped Spurs take the lead, to play a big part in the equaliser and the protection of the team’s defence. “Heart of a lion, we will never give up, well deserved three points and one more game to go,’’ said Nakamba, who was handed a starting role. His teammate, Tyrone Mings, reacted simply by saying, “brilliant brother,’’ while Ezri Konsa, who played right-back, said “excellent brother.’’ Over the course of the 90 minutes at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium, Tottenham had 61% of the possession, took 10 shots of which four were on target, and earned four corners. Visitors Villa had 39% of the possession, took 20 shots of which four were on target, and earned five corners. Greg Evans, writing in The Athletic, said the Villa victory will “give Dean Smith plenty to ponder over the summer, ’’ arguing the events in London were tantamount to the manager “stumbling upon a winning formula” He said Smith might just have found his best possible team. “Had Matty Cash not missed Aston Villa’s 2-1 win over Tottenham Hotspur, through injury, we would not have seen Ezri Konsa deployed as an emergency right-back again,’’ Greg wrote. “Had Tyrone Mings not missed the 3-2 defeat to Crystal Palace last weekend, with a shin problem, Kortney Hause would not have been able to shake off his rustiness in preparation for this test in north London. “And, to a lesser extent, had Douglas Luiz’s recent form not come into question, then perhaps, Marvelous Nakamba would not have been given a chance to start in midfield, last (Wednesday) night. “Throw that together and Dean Smith might have just found his strongest side or one to give him plenty to ponder before next season. “What made this win so encouraging was how Villa rediscovered that fine blend between defence and attack. “Nakamba might not be the best ball-playing midfielder, and an upgrade on him next season is likely if Villa are to kick on again, but he broke up play effectively against Spurs and offered a greater layer of protection to the defence. “Okay, the Zimbabwe international’s mistake was pounced upon as Steven Bergwjn scored the opener on eight minutes but the fightback was superb. “The added protection that Nakamba brings allows (John) McGinn more freedom, he was at his all-action best on Wednesday, no doubt also assisted by the presence of Jack Grealish again, in the midfield.’’ — Sports Reporter/The Athletic