The Herald Talent Bope
Arts Reporter
GOSPEL artiste Joseph Nyakabau, has overcome the odds after losing both parents at a tender age . Nyakabauwas orphaned at the tender age of 8 when he was still in dire need of  parental care. He believed that through, God one day he would achieve his goals. Born in Harare, the 29-year-old gospel artiste never looked back to the devastating life of an orphan and was determined to defy all odds and excel in gospel music. He is driven by the desire to see people turning to Christ through his music. In an interview, Nyakabau, said that he was preparing more music for his fans and has currently released a single, “Taura Mweya Mutsvene,” that was recorded by Tirivashe Zambuko. The song has gained air play on different radio stations like ZifFM Gospel Charts anf was in the top 3 over the past few weeks. “When I wrote this song, it was a prayer to God for our nation which has been subdued by the Covid-19 pandemic that has caused unnecessary suffering to the general populace. “My ultimate goal is to bring people closer to God through music. I’m a singer, songwriter and a vocal coach who believes in music being a medium that God uses to influence lives positively.” Nyakabau’s songs are influenced by his background as an orphan. They encourage people to have hope in the face of challenges. “I started singing 14 years ago when I was a teenage boy. I lost my parents at the age of 8, I’m the sixth in a family of seven. “What inspires me most is my background and the challenges I faced and how God kept me to this day through his spoken word from the Bible,” he said. Nyakabau has three albums and three singles – “Mandichengeta” released in 2008, “Nguva Yapera” in 2013 and “Chiero” (Standard) in 2017 – as well as the latest single track “Taura Mweya Mutsvene”. “Most of my songs speak of courage and edification and they draw a person to connect him with His maker. I compose with the inspiration from the Holy Bible and through what I faced in my life’s journey to be strong, believe in God the word and to believe in myself.” “The latest single was recorded by Tirivashe Zambuko, but I also worked with other producers on my previous productions. “You will learn to put trust in God despite the situation you find yourself in because my music plays a pivotal role in building people’s relationships with God and His word,” said Nyakabau. “What inspires me to sing gospel music is my background of growing up as an orphan. God helped me through as a teenage boy to stay strong and be courageous through gospel music.” Nyakabau was planning to open a charity home from proceeds of his music. He said he still has a lot to achieve in life, adding what he had done so far was just a tip of an iceberg. “I’m planning to start a charity fund through my music and do missionary work, moving around and ministering to the lost souls and the poor. “I haven’t achieved my plans as yet, I am just starting.” He said the journey was not that easy as he was facing a litany of challenges, including lack of funding among others. “My music journey wasn’t easy because I faced a lot of challenges. I grew up loving God, that’s my inspiration. Singing gospel music gave me strength. God told me that l was born for a purpose, so I focused on Jesus and carried my cross and the ministry God gave me to be a worshipper. “Music is not just a ministry, but it’s a profession. I’m a music teacher by profession, the musical ministry is a calling and a mandate to listen to what God is telling you to do,” said Nyakabau.