The Herald LONDON. — Justine Henin says Naomi Osaka is the leader in women’s tennis. The four-time French Open champion questions whether Serena Williams still has the fire in her belly as she continues to chase an historic 24th Grand Slam title. Japanese star Osaka has already collected four Grand Slam titles at the age of 23, while her recent 23-match winning streak included victories at Flushing Meadows and Melbourne as she dominated on hard-courts. She continues to use her social media presence to voice support for social justice issues, while her popularity has risen off the charts. Seven-time Slam winner Henin has been impressed with the way Osaka has continued to evolve her game on the court and feels she has all the artillery and proficiency to stay at the top of women’s tennis for a long time to come. “I’m really much more positive than I was two years ago because that I feel that we have some stability in women’s tennis and I think with Osaka we have someone who can really lead the women’s game in the next few years,” said Henin, who was speaking from her Academy, which is based in Limelette, Belgium. “When she won her first US Open and Australian Open everything seemed new for her and she took a while to assume her status because when she became number one it was really tough for her. She was really shy and it was complicated. “As a player I thought she was impressive already but she has improved physically, she’s moving really, really fast and she’s much better on the court now. The speed and velocity of the forehand is quite amazing. She can do a bit of everything. “She has great vision and she has improved mentally. At the Australian Open she saved two match points against Garbine Muguruza. “Her serve reminds me a bit of Serena Williams who sometimes wasn’t playing so well but times when she had to play well she was doing it. Naomi is charismatic and a complete player. She plays fast, she’s consistent, and she has physically improved a lot, so I’m very impressed by the level of the game she can reach.” Whether Osaka can do it on clay is a burning question on everyone’s lips. She heads into Roland Garros having fallen early in Madrid and Rome, while her record in Paris does not bode well for her chances of adding to her major haul having failed to go beyond the third round. Henin has also been impressed with reigning French Open champion Iga Swiatek and world No. 1 Ashleigh Barty. Poland’s Swiatek will turn 20 during this year’s Grand Slam and heads into the tournament on a high having swept to victory at the WTA 1000 Internazionali BNL d’Italia. Barty has been in imperious form, having claimed three singles titles this year. She also has previous form in Paris having won her maiden Grand Slam title at Roland Garros in 2019. Henin said: “Swiatek will be interesting because it looks like she has managed well over the past few months after winning the French Open, but it’s going to be the first time she’s going to be defending a Grand Slam title so it’s going to be a new step for her. “Ashleigh Barty has been amazing in terms of consistency because she didn’t play the second part of last year and she is very stable, so that’s amazing. “Competition is challenging again, but what we missed over the last couple of years has been the consistency. ‘‘I have the feeling that slowly but surely we are coming back to that and I’m very happy and excited about it.” Henin believes there is a “high percentage” of a chance Williams can finally end her wait for a record-equalling 24th Grand Slam title, which would move her level alongside Margaret Court. — Sky Sports