The Herald Tadious Manyepo
Sports Reporter
WARRIORS’ goalkeeper, Martin Mapisa, could become the first Zimbabwean to play in the Spanish La Liga 2 if his side Zamora FC successfully negotiate the long play-off road in Segunda B. The lengthy play-off route could have been easier, had Zamora been clinical in front of goal, in the Segunda Group 1. They finished tied on points, with group winners Union de Salamanca and runners-up Celta Vigo (B), but missed top spot because of an inferior goal difference. But, Mapisa will care less about that and, instead, the 22-year-old is already looking forward to the first leg of the first round, of the play-offs, against Badajoz on Sunday. The Segunda B League, which is equivalent to Division 3 here or League One in England, is divided into four groups. Winners of each group qualify for the play-off semi-finals from which winners are promoted to the Segunda Division, otherwise known as La Liga 2. The second-placed teams, in the four groups, are drawn against the fourth-positioned teams and the third-placed sides are drawn against each other. This creates six further two-legged play-off games. The six winners of these games will advance to the next play-off round where they are joined by the two losing teams, from the group winners’ semi-finals. The eight teams are then drawn against each other to create four two-legged matches from which winners advance to the semi-finals. The winners from the two semi-finals get promoted. The lanky Warriors ‘keeper is fancying his team’s chances of getting the ticket into the Segunda Division and inch closer to a La Liga dance. For him, things appear to be going according to script, having joined the Marcelo Gomez side when they were still in the Terceira Division (Fourth Division), last season. With the Zimbabwean on board, despite him being restricted to only three appearances, Zamora went all the way to securing promotion in the Segunda B. Although senior goalkeeper, Jon Villanueva, started most of the games last season, Mapisa has grown to become an integral part of the team. The Zimbabwean was thrust into action in half of the 18 games played by his team this season. He has also been entrusted with duty in the Copa del Rey although the team was knocked out by Villarreal. Mapisa said his ultimate goal was to play in La Liga but was taking it one step at a time. “I came here to Zamora to add my strength to the team so that we get promoted to the Segunda B. “And, I’m still 20 years old, so I’m gonna do my best to reach my goal of becoming the first Zimbabwean to play in La Liga,” Mapisa said on arrival at the team last year. And, just a year later, he could help his team secure promotion into the second tier of the Spanish football league system. “I am happy for the team, I am happy for the chance that we have been presented with and, hopefully, we will go all the way. “It’s a long way, indeed, but as footballers, you know our lives depend on what we produce on the field of play. “It’s going to be tough, given the ambition of all the other teams that we are going to be facing but we are all geared up as a club and I am confident we will succeed.”