The Herald THE Warriors, the Mighty Warriors, the Chevrons, the Lady Chevrons, the Gems, the Cheetahs, the Sables, you name them, they are who we are, as a people, our sporting ambassadors. They represent the interests of every one who identifies himself, or herself, as a Zimbabwean. We have all seen the raw power of the Chevrons as a unifying force on the occasions they have done well in the tough trenches they battle against the very best in the world. We saw how the Gems triggered a tsunami of pride in our identity as Zimbabweans when they did well at their debut Netball World Cup show, in England. We suddenly found ourselves falling in love with netball, as a nation, inspired by the heroics of our Gems and the stylish way they were playing the game. The way those who attended the matches supporting them with song and dance provided a unique soundtrack to this World Cup like it had never seen, or heard, before. The world was now talking about us, in a different light, using a different narrative, that despite everything that has been thrown at us, we remained such a lively, and lovely, people. We all saw the dividends, those that we cannot measure through dollars and cents, like the amazing boost which was given to our image, as a country, by the exploits of our Gems. Then, there were the other dividends we can see, like how our star, Felistus Kwangwa, ended up being snapped by English side Surrey Storm, in a life-changing move. We all derived a lot of pride when our Mighty Warriors produced a modern day football miracle by defying the odds to qualify for the 2016 Olympic Games. We beat our chests with pride, from being one of just two African countries, the other one being our South African neighbours, who were good enough to be in Brazil for that showcase. The dividends were also there for everyone to see, our country’s name being cast in a positive light, throughout the international media, which highlighted how our never-say-die qualities had taken our Mighty Warriors to the Olympics. Now, the world knows we have women footballers who are really good and Emmanuel Msipa was signed by a Spanish team, with more set to follow. This is why we long for the Warriors, who have the biggest constituency, in terms of following in this country, to do well in their international competitions. We imagine the Warriors playing at the FIFA World Cup, something which isn’t impossible since even Angola have been there before, and we find ourselves being lost for words, for the sheer impact that will have on Brand Zimbabwe. It would be huge, not only in terms of boosting the image of this country, but also for opening avenues for our players to be targeted by scouts, and major clubs, from around the world. It will change our football, an industry that has always had this massive potential, but which continues to struggle, because of one reason or another. There’s no doubt that we have the talent, we are the only Southern African country with a player, Marvelous Nakamba, featuring regularly, in the English Premiership. This is a league which has produced the two finalists for the UEFA Champions League, in Chelsea and Manchester City, in a demonstration of its quality. It’s a league that almost produced the two finalists, for the UEFA Europa League as well, had Arsenal not lost to eventual winners Villarreal of Spain. So, when we challenge ZIFA to provide the Warriors, with the best preparations, including international friendliness, to help them have the best shot of realising their potential, we are not doing so driven by malice. We are only doing that driven by national interest and the realisation that those who are doing so, like Ghana who have been to the World Cup three times, know the value of such exercises. All we want is for our Warriors to succeed, nothing more and nothing less, and to suggest that we have any other agenda, is taking issues into the world of fantasy. The Warriors belong to all of us, they are our identity, those who have been handed the responsibility to ensure their welfare is taken care of, like our football leaders, are only doing that on our behalf. These are people who pledged they had the capacity to do that, even campaigned to be voted into those positions, promising the electorate that they could deliver a certain value, to change the face of the Warriors. To now bring in issues like the economic challenges, which were there when they campaigned, and promised to make a difference, as the reason they are coming short, in delivery of what they pledged, doesn’t sit well with us. How do we balance the fact that, just a few months ago, we were pouring money into the phantom Division Three and Four leagues, which received a share of the FIFA Covid-19 bailout, when we now say we don’t have the money, which we can use, to try and prepare our Warriors? We acknowledge it’s not an easy job to lead national sports associations and the challenges, which confront those who take those positions, are huge. But, then, if one also feels the gravity of the challenges are insurmountable, especially in such sports associations where there isn’t a direct personal benefit for the leadership, he or she can pass on the baton to others, to try and provide a different direction. The bottom line remains, the Warriors need preparatory matches and any other soundtrack, to try and justify why they are not getting such games, is a song meant to celebrate their downfall.