The Herald Precious Manomano Herald Reporter Citizen Legal and Funeral Home has pledged to assist artistes and musicians to maintain their status in the event of death and any other issues which need financial assistance. The development comes after the organisation realised that many artistes faced financial problems in the event of death of their beloved ones or themselves. Recently, the organisation came to the rescue of former Khiama Boys band member Tauro Miti, who lost his two-month-old baby at Chitungwiza Central Hospital. Citizens Legal and Funeral Home director Edmore Govere said their organisation was there to help artistes who were in need of financial assistance to repatriate bodies because the profession was looked down upon and it did not have a retirement package. Govere said they started helping artists and musicians a long time ago and will continue to do so. “We have been doing this for a very long time, we believe that the music industry is looked down upon so we are there to uplift them,” he said. “We provided the funeralservice for Tongai Moyo and recently we provided financial services to another artiste who lost his baby two weeks ago.” The Founder of Zimbabwe Artiste Trust, Karen Madhake, said they partnered with Citizen Legal and Funeral Home after noticing that many artistes were struggling to stand on their own in the event of a death. “We are very proud of Citizen Legal and Funeral Home, this organisation is there to uplift the standards of living of artistes through providing financial and burial services,” he said. Miti said the organisation helped him with financial support to process the burial arrangements of his child. “I am very grateful, l received financial support and all processes were done easily until burial because the organisation was there helping me,” he said. Covid-19, which has hit the world and the region, has also affected Zimbabwean artistes as most of their international tours have been cancelled, leading to loss of business. The pandemic has significantly impacted arts and culture programming internationally. Last year, the Government unveiled a $10 million Covid-19 relief fund to cushion artistes from the devastating effects of the global pandemic. The fund is an initiative of President Mnangagwa.