The Herald ROME. — After three weeks in which the men who run Manchester United have been pilloried by their fans, and branded snakes by UEFA president, there was something positive on Thursday night. Advancing past Roma to reach the Europa League final can, at least, give them satisfaction from one bold show of faith that is one step from being rewarded. Having given Ole Gunnar Solskjaer a three-year contract as permanent United boss in 2019, just as results were nosediving towards a torrid end to the season that ended with a home defeat by already relegated Cardiff, there have been at least two occasions since when many wondered if the Glazer family and executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward would get rid of the Norwegian. The most recent came at the beginning of December, as United went out of the Champions League at the group stage. Those external calls for Mauricio Pochettino to be installed in Solskjaer’s place were resisted. Two days after Pochettino’s Paris St-Germain side were dumped out of Europe by one Manchester club, the other reached their first final since 2017 and the first under Solskjaer. They lost 2-3 to Roma but sailed through to the final 8-5 on aggregate. “I am always happy, no matter what anyone thinks,” said Solskjaer. “We have had our ups and downs but while I am disappointed to lose the game, we are in the final and have given ourselves a good end to the season. ‘’I am so happy for the boys that they’ve got something to look forward to.” Something has to give in the meeting with Villarreal in Gdansk on 26 May. In four previous meetings with the Spanish side, all in the Champions League group phase, neither side has scored a goal. By the time the final comes around, more should be known about Edinson Cavani’s future and, possibly, also that of Paul Pogba, whose contract expires in 2022, the same time as that of his manager. Solskjaer says it is “not my problem” if he distorts the battle for Champions League places by fielding under-strength teams next week. His men will play three times in five days after their Premier League encounter with Liverpool was rearranged for Thursday, 13 May. They face Aston Villa tomorrow before hosting Leicester on Tuesday. Solskjaer says it is “impossible” to pick his strongest squad in every game. United will face Liverpool – who, in seventh place, are seven points outside of the top four with a game in hand – just 50 hours after they play Leicester. They only need four points from their last five matches to confirm their Champions League place. “Someone might not be happy with my team selection for one or two games because it might affect whoever gets into the Champions League,” Solskjaer said. Four games in eight days Thursday, 6 May (21:00): Roma 3-2 Man Utd (5-8 agg) Tomorrow (15:05): Aston Villa v Man Utd (Villa Park, Premier League) Tuesday, 11 May (19:00): Man Utd v Leicester City (Old Trafford, Premier League) Thursday, 13 May (21:15): Man Utd v Liverpool (Old Trafford, Premier League) — BBC Sport.