The Herald Craig Twist-Fashion Correspondent Winter is here and hopefully, fashion wise we are all prepared. I like fashionista Daymond John statement that, “good grooming is integral and impeccable style is a must. “If you don’t look the part, no one will want to give you time or money.” Believe me if I say it does not take much to transform yourself from a two or three, if you want to be serious with fashion. The last time we spoke about the three types of trousers that are a must have for every man regardless of age or body type. Now that we know the trousers, how about we transform the whole wardrobe. The good thing with fashion sometimes is that you don’t need to break a bank or spend all your hard earned money to upgrade yourself to the nines, sometimes it is about your creativeness. Dark denim jeans Dark denims are a wardrobe staple and an essential piece that can transform a man’s look in an instant. It doesn’t really matter what your style is, but every man or almost every man has a pair of jeans in their wardrobe. It could be a white washed pair or some damaged jeans, light blue, black you name it. Jeans come in a variety of styles and colours but the most versatile of them all is the dark denim jeans. Dark denims can be worn with anything and for any occasion except, obviously, when you are going for a jog, swim or going to bed, other than that, dark denim jeans can be worn with a suit jacket, a formal shirt, a t-shirt, a hoodie, trainers or with formal shoes. With dark denims you are spoilt for choice as to what to pair them with, the possibilities are infinite and whenever you are in doubt, wear dark denim jeans. Oxford shirt /Button down shirt The good thing about an oxford shirt is it’s as versatile as the dark denims. A button down collar shirt is the all-day everyday go-to shirt that you need in your life to give yourself an instant upgrade. I get a lot of questions from people asking if they can wear a tie with an oxford shirt and the answer is, yes. An oxford shirt can be worn with jean trousers, shorts, chinos or a suit trousers, tucked or untucked, the choice is absolutely yours but be rest assured that you are going to look and feel great. The oxford shirt cuts between casual and formal wear, comes in a diversity of colours and the first one you should own is a plain white oxford shirt. Navy blue Jacket/blazer I am sure by now most of you know that I am one of the top advocates for a navy blue jacket. I know sometimes talking about suits all the time becomes a bit cliché and its also true that suits are not for everyone and they require a bit of work to pull them off, I get it, but a navy blue jacket will do some magic for you. A navy jacket is something that you can throw around with anything, from any colour jeans to chinos to a t-shirt inside, shirt or anything in between. According to the business insider, “Do play with different coloured bottoms, as long as they’re not navy or black (you’ll look like you’re wearing a mismatched dark suit.)” They went on to say most men struggle to pull off a navy blue jacket by wearing the same boring combos of a white button down shirt and khaki chinos which is true especially when you now know that you can wear it with shorts and jeans of any colour and pattern, the options are endless. White Trainers/Sneakers White trainers are a shoe rack staple, if you want to transform your wardrobe game instantly, get yourself some white trainers. White trainers are versatile and can do with any look however there are the types that are not your everyday shoes. Don’t get me wrong, they are beautiful and trendy but we are talking about timeless, flat soles you can wear with anything, any time such as white Adidas Stan Smith. It’s not everyone who can afford Common Projects Achilles’ however you can archive the same object without breaking the bank with Stan Smiths. Flat sole white trainers can be worn with jeans, shorts, chinos or joggers and still look as if you have several pairs, the secret is to keep them clean. A good pair of decent white trainers will never go out of style, they are always a classic that can be worn even 10 years from now so grab yourself a pair and unlock the power in you. Brown Brogues You know what’s timeless than a black shoe? A brown one. Its not everything that goes with a black shoes, but almost any outfit can do with brown shoes apart from sportwear. Brown is a natural and earthy colour which can blend in with almost anything. Apart from brown being my favourite colour due to the grounding energy it brings, it deeps into any colour combo from blue to charcoal to khaki you name it. Brogues are formal but can be worn with a dressy and casual outfit alike. For a start, brown brogues are the best option, especially if you are in the initial stages of upgrading your look.