The Herald Ellina Mhlanga-Senior Sports Reporter AFTER successfully hosting their last selection meet on Saturday, the Harare Athletic Board says they are making final touches for the staging of the National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe Inter-provincial Championships this week. Harare have so far staged three events, including those held by clubs, Mr Pace Athletics Club and Amen Academy, in the last two weeks. The competitions were part of the province’s team selection and on Saturday they had a good turnout at the Amen Academy Championships with more than 200 athletes attending. Some of the highlights from Saturday’s meet at the National Sports Stadium were from Jorja Well with a 1.50m jump in high jump and Anneka Colegrave with a 10.44m leap in triple jump and it was her season’s best so far. On the track, the likes of Oliver Masara pulled a surprise when he went on to challenge the seniors in the 100m event and came out tops in 10.83 seconds. Having had challenges in the previous years when it came to juniors when selecting their provincial team, Harare coaches’ co-ordinator, Collen Makaza, said they were pleased with the response this time around. “We were looking more on the juniors because we have had problems in the past when it came to juniors, when coming up with our team especially the girls. But I think we are going to get it right this time as most juniors turned up. “We are also keeping track on our athletes in Zambia competing in the All-comers meet. We are communicating with coach David Tinago who is there because we are also considering that event. We are looking at the best times and we are finalising the team tonight (last night). “I think looking at Saturday’s event, we had some good times. Our athletes are fit and ready because of the competitions we have had, so I think we are geared for the national event,” Makaza said. The Inter-provincial Championships, set for May 22, are expected to attract the country’s top track and field athletes. Most of the country’s leading athletes will be using the national meet to prepare for major continental and international competitions lined-up for the year. HAB vice-chairperson, Aaron Whyte, said they also used Saturday’s meet as a rehearsal to assess their preparedness for the national event and there are some areas that need sprucing up at the venue as well as the technical officials’ side. “We identified some areas where we need to improve in terms of our technical officials, the staging of the event as well as the preparedness of the facilities. “There are areas that need to be sorted out especially with the staff from the stadium, from the Sports Commission that we have highlighted the issues to them and they are going to take care of them. “In terms of the facilities, the long jump and triple jump areas they need to be sorted and the Sports Commission promised that they will get their technical team to do that especially the jumping boards. Most of the facilities and the equipment they have, have been there for quite a long time, so they need replacement. “Then on our technical officials, we just noticed that we were taking too long to start some events because at the finish they were taking long to compile the results. “So that’s one area that we really need to work on. But our officials co-ordinator is working on that and has promised that by next weekend it will be sorted out,” said White. The HAB vice-chairperson added that for their provincial team, they are looking at athletes who have been consistent, committed and are in good standing with the provincial board.