The Herald LONDON. — Arsenal have opened talks over a move for Norwich City forward Emiliano Buendia as they look to head off competition from fellow English Premiership club Aston Villa. Buendia, who has been called up by Argentina for the Copa America next month, is valued at £40 million by newly-promoted Norwich with a percentage sell-on due to his former club Getafe. There is an acceptance that Buendia will leave and Arsenal’s new director of football Richard Garlick seems determined to make the 24-year old their first signing of the summer. Arsenal fans are eager to see change following a hugely underwhelming season and Garlick wants to ensure his tenure gets off to a strong start. Discussions have escalated quickly with Norwich eager to avoid a transfer saga dragging on through the summer. The Carrow Road club anticipate offers of around £35 million plus add-ons and Arsenal know Villa have the financial muscle to compete. Villa have Buendia’s compatriot Emiliano Martinez and want an attacking player who can give them a greater goal threat, particularly if Manchester City step up their interest in £100m-rated talisman Jack Grealish. Buendia scored 15 goals this season on the way to being named Norwich’s Player of the Season and the EFL Championship’s Player of the Season. He is hoping to figure for Argentina in their pending World Cup qualifiers next month plus the Copa America and a transfer is expected to be concluded soon if talks continue to escalate. Arsenal have also opened talks to sign Bayer Leverkusen defender Edmond Tapsoba, according to reports. The Burkina Faso international has been among the best centre-backs in the Bundesliga since arriving from Vitoria Guimaraes in January 2020 for £15.5 million. “The squad needs changing,” Arteta recently said. “There were already a lot of changes in December, something that has not been done in years, but it tells us where we were . “Things are going to have to change and the owners are going to back it up. “We have to do what we believe we have to do. Time is catching up right now. “It’s a trend, it’s years now that this has been happening. “If the distance and the margins with the rest becomes too big, then it’s almost impossible to do it.’’ — Mailonline.