The Herald Ellina Mhlanga-Senior Sports Reporter NATIONAL sport associations have encouraged their members to take advantage of the national vaccination programme to pave way for a safe return of sport. Government rolled out the vaccination programme in February and there has been a positive response from different sectors. Zimbabwe Handball Federation secretary-general, Edison Chirowodza, said they were urging their members to consider vaccination, which may fast track the full return of sport, especially for team sports. “We are actively recommending our athletes to be vaccinated although, ultimately, it’s an individual decision to be vaccinated. ‘‘But, we are recommending to them that they should be vaccinated. “As we speak, most of our national team players have been vaccinated, both the Under-21 and the senior players. ‘‘I can say the response has been good so far. “The same thing is happening with clubs. Although most of them had done the tests, now we are having our clubs being vaccinated, so the response is good. ‘‘I know Harare City and Manyame went for vaccination. “It’s important because once the whole team is vaccinated, the risk of transmitting the virus is reduced. Definitely, it will fast track the return of sport,” said Chirowodza. Zimbabwe Netball Association organising secretary, Alex Masimba, said they were also encouraging their members to be vaccinated. “As an association, we are encouraging our people to get vaccinated, as per the Government’s recommendations. ‘‘We had to sit down, as an executive or as an association, to write down the protocols to be followed by clubs and we sent them to the SRC and they were approved, sometime back in March. “Actually, we had done this last year, then we had to sit and re-write, we had to make some additions to the previous one. “We expect the clubs to follow those protocols religiously because Covid-19 is a reality. ‘‘ a sporting discipline, we are to follow the health protocols, it helps prevent the spread of the virus. “We encourage people to get vaccinated, it helps us to start our games in time. “We are hoping to start as early as end of this month, that’s our projected timeline. We will check with the clubs to see how they are responding to the issue of vaccination,” said Masimba. Tennis Zimbabwe manager, Cliff Nhokwara, said they were being guided by the Government position with regards to vaccination. “For now, we don’t have a compulsory policy. But we do encourage them to be vaccinated because a lot of our kids do international travel so, internationally, eventually it’s going to be a requirement,” said Nhokwara. Judo Association of Zimbabwe president, Smart Deke, is leading by example after receiving his first jab.He is now encouraging their members to be vaccinated so that they can get their activities into full swing. “Most of our coaches has been vaccinated so far, including me the president. I am going to have my second dose on the 1st of June. “We are truly considering this as a way of safety to our coaches, athletes and the environment. ‘‘All athletes, who are above the recommended age to be vaccinated, we encourage them to be vaccinated and still follow all the Covid-19 regulations. “We hope to get back in full swing, especially now that we have these equipment, we are hoping that the Ministry of Education, after monitoring the situation, will give is the permission to start in schools,” said Deke.