The Herald Shepherd Chimururi Youth Interactions correspondent Students in high schools have hailed the introduction of online lessons during Covid19. While other schools are still planning for it, others are already implementing. It is believed that some students missed lessons because of lockdown as it was more of virtual platform, some did not have the facilities while others basked in the glory of virtual lesson. To them the wheels of education never stopped turning. In an interview with Youth Interactions some students shared their first hand experiences about learning online, what they perceived as advantages and disadvantages of online lessons. The also spoke on the challenges they are facing, the strategies they use and rules they have been given by teachers. Mother Touch Senior School, upper six sciences, Aurora Tapfuma, (17) said due to the abrupt and premature termination of the school term last year and the undefined period of waiting for lockdown to be lifted, it was important to embrace ELearning. “Our school mainly used two platforms namely Microsoft Teams and WhatsApp Broadcast. These I found to be more mentally stimulating than regular one on one classes. They allowed simplified collaboration and class management even virtually. Logging into a Microsoft Teams video lesson was quick, easy and allowed all students to be included with the built-in accessibility tool,” she said. Tapfuma who is also the headgirl of the school said online learning on groups and social media application WhatsApp enhanced comprehension and retention as the teacher could  upload several slides onto one’s screen while teaching for illustration and demonstration. “This particular method of learning reinforced reading and lecture material with greater effectiveness. Lessons could be recorded and videos posted could be saved and replayed unlike one on one lessons which cannot be rewinded or paused. Online Learning gave us room to appreciate censory images, dynamic features, relevant issues and inherent problems. The main drawback was lousy network connectivity which often resulted in one missing one’s lesson,” she explained. Tapfuma added that it was easy as asking questions was very much acceptable. “No students were allowed to converse personally. Teachers only logged off after making sure that all students were offline. The major difference is that for science subjects, which are more hands-on, it was a challenge for a teacher to explain clearly most terms or formulas in explicit detail whereas in a class, a teacher will drone and drone until the whole class understands the topic. Another difference is that whereas classic, normal learning allows the class to grasp the concept, online learning is more student centred. All things considered for my school, online lessons were more effective than we had hoped,” she said. Wise Owl Group of Schools, lower sixth form student Musengi Tadiwanashe Dominic, also said they have been introduced to some applications which have helped them further their studies via online. “At our school we use Google Classroom, G-meet and WhatsApp. The big advantage of online lessons is it is easier to be relaxed since you will be learning from home and the disadvantage is It is very easy to get distracted so it takes more effort to stay focused. On challenges, teachers are limited to texts, voice notes and media so it is difficult to understand a topic. There can be network challenges. Students usually resort to sending pictures of their homework for subjects that involve diagrams and calculations (since there are few software that allow you to input mathematical symbols accurately and effectively) this is a problem because some students may have low resolution cameras or bad photography skills resulting in poor visibility and marking difficulties,” she said. The 17 year old said that WhatsApp does not have mark schedules or keep track of student performance. “G-Suite gives more interaction with the teacher compared to WhatsApp and it creates a normal learning environment in a virtual world. In advanced level the timetable is congested. Once you start in the morning, you end in the afternoon. There are slots in between lessons to ease the pressure which affords one to relieve oneself. I advise other students to have a desk that’s next to a socket. It lets you use our gadgets while taking down physical notes and make sure that you have enough bundles to last you throughout the lessons,” she said. However, physical classes are much preferred because they are more personal and the pace of the lesson remains constant as there are no uncontrollable factors that may ruin a lesson. Again, difficult concepts are easily understood during physical compared to virtual. It is possible to learn well online but it is much harder than physical lessons. Form three Huxton boarding school, Ntuta Ariana, said they are facing challenges on online learning which includes high cost of data bundles to attend real time online lessons and poor signal reception. “Lessons are schedules at one hour per lesson per subject per day. Before every lessons commences the teacher marks the register and a notification is sent to the parent if found absent. Videos for the lessons are present on sets hence no need to download large files and videos. Unwanted words are filtered. Rules that we have been given by teachers include the use of only formal language during lessons and interaction between learners. Interaction between learners should be upon permission and is scheduled and monitored thus should be educative. Absenteeism is not tolerated and it may result in suspension. Submission of work is timed and strictly monitored by the admin The differences between physical and online lessons I have experienced is that physical lessons are more interactive and can be well monitored,” she explained.