The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
PAKISTAN cricket players and officials have revealed they were thrilled by the hospitality they received in Zimbabwe during their recent tour. The senior men’s cricket side was in Zimbabwe for three T20Is and a two-match Test series played in a bubble in Harare. The Pakistan Cricket Board posted on their media platforms that Zimbabwe, especially the hotel staff where the team was staying, lived up to their billing as good hosts. “Well deserved appreciation for the hardworking hotel staff and team liaison officer in Zimbabwe. Thank you for looking after our team,” said the PCB in a brief statement. The Pakistan team paid tribute to the hotel staff, who performed beyond their expectations by providing special meals during the month of Ramadan. The tourists arrived in Zimbabwe on April 17, five days after the start of the holy month. They left this week, which coincided with the conclusion of the Ramadan month. The manager of the Pakistan cricket team, Mansoor Rana, held a brief farewell ceremony on the eve of the team’s departure from Harare.
Rana commended his side for winning both the T20I series and the Test series against Zimbabwe. He also handed special gifts in appreciation to the hotel staff that hosted the team for the past month. He was touched by the excellent service from the staff who went the extra mile during the month of Ramadan by serving special dishes. “First of all, I would like to take this opportunity and thank Pakistan team, the players, and the whole management. They have done a wonderful job by winning the series. There have been some individual brilliant performances. “At the same time, I would like to thank the entire hotel staff who have been working with us throughout the tournament. “My special thanks goes to the hotel staff, the chef and everybody who has been doing a great job with our early breakfast which is Sehri and special Iftari in the Ramadan month. So we have got a few things for them as an appreciation,” said Rana in a short video posted online. Zimbabwe Cricket were roped in by Zimbabwe Tourism Authority to market Zimbabwe to the world through the “Visit Zimbabwe Campaign.” The Campaign aims to court the international community through cricket, to visit Zimbabwe. Under the programme, ZC and visiting teams stand to benefit from hospitality packages courtesy of the national tourism body. The promotional campaign is designed to help boost the country’s tourism appeal. Under the partnership, Zimbabwe national team players will display a “Visit Zimbabwe—A World of Wonders” message on one sleeve of their playing kit.