The Herald Ellina Mhlanga
Senior Sports Reporter
IT’S looking good for some of the juniors hoping to qualify for the World Under-20 Championships after they posted promising times over the weekend. They took part at the Inter-provincial Championships in Harare. Most provinces had both juniors, and seniors, competing at the meet. Clinton Muunga of Matabeleland South and Harare’s Samukeliso Ndebele posted times, within the qualifying standards, in 100m and 200m. But, the times still have to be verified by World Athletics. Muunga ran qualifying times, when he clocked 10.46 seconds in the senior men 100m, and 21.21 seconds in 200m. Ndebele ran 23.30 seconds in the senior women 200m. The qualifying time for junior men 100m is 10.58 seconds and, for 200m, it’s 21.38 seconds. For junior women, the 100m qualifying time is 11.85s and for 200m it’s 24:35s. National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe director of coaching, Lisimati Phakamile, confirmed the results have to be verified by World Athletics. “Our official results will be forwarded to World Athletics to confirm and verify the conditions, which the competition was held,’’ he said. “What I mean is World Athletics have to verify the conditions, under which the competition was held, so that they officially recognise the results. “If the results are verified, we can officially confirm that these two athletes have qualified to the World Championships.” The national competition gave the athletes and coaches the platform to gauge their progress and national juniors coach, Briad Nhubu, was pleased with the outcome. “Juniors who featured in the events did extremely well,’’ said Nhubu. “Since it was an open competition, they competed against elite national athletes and managed to challenge seniors. “Now that most of our athletes are very close to qualifying, there is need for national events coaches to make a performance analysis. “There is need to work harder, to fine-tune the athletes, especially in areas of explosive speed and maximum aerobic power. “For some, we need to polish on things like running mechanics, mental toughness and race tactics.’’ Kudakwashe Chadenga is among the promising athletes and has been consistent in high jump. “Although Kudakwashe Chadenga missed qualifying for Kenya, he displayed an impressive performance and was the champion for high jump after beating the silver medallist, and bronze medalist, who are all seniors. “Chadenga is fighting to get to 2,16m and he jumped 2,13m. “Takudzwa Chiyangwa managed to settle for silver in the men’s 400m finals. This was yet another spectacular performance by the upcoming athlete in the junior category. “Elizabeth Msipa also managed to pull through, from heats to finals, in both 100m and 200m. “Grace Mumvuri was another junior woman, who showcased an amazing performance in 100m and 200m, as well as long jump,” Nhubu said. The World Under-20 Championships are scheduled for August in Kenya.