The Herald Ellina Mhlanga
Senior Sports Reporter
LOCAL athletes are back on track today when they converge at the National Sports Stadium B Arena for the National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe Inter-provincial Track and Field Championships. The national meet attracts athletes from all the country’s 10 provinces and expectations remain high, despite the setbacks, in the last few months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. With a number of continental, and international events lined up for the year, including the Africa Senior Championships, Olympic Games and the World Under-20 Championships, the national association are optimistic of a competitive meet. National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe director for coaching, talent identification and development, Lisimati Phakamile said they will be selecting their national team. “This is a very important event that brings the whole nation, and all the clubs and the provinces in the country, together,’’ he said. “It is our main event that we are going to use to select, and also finalise our teams for the international meets, which are coming up. “We want them to do their best, we want them to run, to compete and show us quality results.’’ Most of the provinces have had provincial competitions building up to the national event. Some of the athletes have been to South Africa and Zambia, in search of competition, to qualify for the Africa Senior Championships, which have since been postponed, to a later date. Some are chasing qualifying times for the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games and the juniors have the World Under-20 coming in August.  “We are expecting this competition to be very tough for all the athletes,’’ he said. “We believe that, with the number of competitions we have had in the country and the international or regional meets that they have gone to, our athletes can compete and challenge each other.’’ Hosts, Harare named a 40-member team of experienced and upcoming athletes. Wellington Varevi, Olivia Chitate, Rudo Mhonderwa, Dickson Kamungeremu join youngsters such as high jumper Kudakwashe Chadenga and sprinter Oliver Masara.  However, Ngoni Makusha, who had been included in the team, will not be available. “I have some niggles on my hamstring from the Zambia competition, so my physio advised me to have a rest. “They (inter-provincials) are always part of my plans. I have been racing outside of the country all season, so I was excited to compete locally. “But, due to circumstances, I couldn’t do it this year,” said Makusha. The meet is also expected to feature a number of athletes from Mozambique, who were expected in the country late yesterday. Malawi, had made some inquiries but they are no longer coming. “We felt that as an association we still have to hold our championship. We have limited the event guided by the Covid-19 regulations,’’ said NAAZ president ,Tendai Tagara. 