The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Bafana Bafana coach Hugo Broos has shed light on the reason behind his omission of the likes of captain Thulani Hlatshwayo and experienced goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune. Hlatshwayo and Khune were among the notable absentees from the latest 19-man Bafana squad, which was Broos’ very first since taking the reins, to face Uganda in a friendly international next month. The squad also gives Zimbabwe coach, Zdravko Logarusic, a glimpse of the players his Warriors will face in their 2022 World Cup qualifier, in September. The Belgian warned he would be chopping senior statesmen who have been present, in previous squads, and stuck to his guns as he named the likes of 22-year-old Sibusiso Mabiliso, 23-year-old Sipho Mbule and 20-year-old Bongokuhle Hlongwane. “I was getting a lot of information in the last few days; I talked with my assistant (Helman Mkhalele) and I made a list, I didn’t look at who was captain (previously),” said Broos after his announcement on Saturday. “I just wanted a good list, it is for the first time and we will see. In September there will be other names, I am sure, and maybe the captain (Hlatshwayo) will be there again. “I also heard he didn’t have a good season, but he is not forgotten.” Giving more on the inclusion of 26-year-old Bruce Bvuma, who will deputise for Ronwen Williams, the 69-year-old explained that his propensity is to build towards the long-term future. “I think in the future we need a young keeper. I saw the game between Chiefs and Simba (at FNB Stadium), I got there early because I wanted to see him warming up,” he revealed. “I was impressed by what he was doing, and in the game he was also good, so we have given him a chance to show what he can do with Bafana.” There was no place in the squad captain Thulani Hlatshwayo, Themba Zwane, Itumeleng Khune, Bradley Grobler and Luther Singh. Full squad: Goalkeepers: Ronwen Williams, Bruce Bvuma Defenders: Rivaldo Coetzee, Nkosinathi Sibisi, Rushine de Reuck, Innocent Maela, Craig Martin, Aubrey Modiba, Sibusiso Mabiliso, Mosa Lebusa Midfielders: Thabang Monare, Mothobi Mvala, Sipho Mbule, Keagan Dolly, Teboho Mokoena, Lebohang Maboe. Forwards: Bongokuhle Hlongwane, Percy Tau, Thabiso Kutumela. — Sports Reporter/Kickoff.com